---
title: Updated - Relational Databases docs | Microsoft Docs
description: Display snippets of updated content for recently changed in documentation, for Relational Databases.

manager: craigg
author: MightyPen
ms.author: genemi
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: UpdArt.exe
ms.suite: sql
ms.prod_service: sql-non-specified

ms.component: relational-databases
ms.date: 04/28/2018
---
# New and Recently Updated: Relational Databases docs



Nearly every day Microsoft updates some of its existing articles on its [Docs.Microsoft.com](http://docs.microsoft.com/) documentation website. This article displays excerpts from recently updated articles. Links to new articles might also be listed.

This article is generated by a program that is rerun periodically. Occasionally an excerpt can appear with imperfect formatting, or as markdown from the source article. Images are never displayed here.

Recent updates are reported for the following date range and subject:



- *Date range of updates:* &nbsp; **2018-02-03** &nbsp; -to- &nbsp; **2018-04-28**
- *Subject area:* &nbsp; **Relational Databases**.




&nbsp;

## New Articles Created Recently

The following links jump to new articles that have been added recently.


1. [Joins (SQL Server)](performance/joins.md)
2. [Subqueries (SQL Server)](performance/subqueries.md)
3. [Set up replication distribution database in Always On availability group](replication/configure-distribution-availability-group.md)
4. [SQL Data Discovery and Classification](security/sql-data-discovery-and-classification.md)
5. [Transaction Locking and Row Versioning Guide](sql-server-transaction-locking-and-row-versioning-guide.md)
6. [sys.dm_os_job_object (Azure SQL Database)](system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-os-job-object-transact-sql.md)
7. [Filestream and FileTable system stored procedures (Transact-SQL)](system-stored-procedures/filestream-and-filetable-system-stored-procedures.md)



&nbsp;

## Updated Articles with Excerpts

This section displays the excerpts of updates gathered from articles that have recently experienced a large update.

The excerpts displayed here appear separated from their proper semantic context. Also, sometimes an excerpt is separated from important markdown syntax that surrounds it in the actual article. Therefore these excerpts are for general guidance only. The excerpts only enable you to know whether your interests warrant taking the time to click and visit the actual article.

For these and other reasons, do not copy code from these excerpts, and do not take as exact truth any text excerpt. Instead, visit the actual article.





&nbsp;

<a name="compactupdatedlist"/>

### Compact List of Articles Updated Recently

This compact list provides links to all the updated articles that are listed in the Excerpts section.

1. [Use a Format File to Skip a Table Column (SQL Server)](#TitleNum_1)
2. [JSON data in SQL Server](#TitleNum_2)
3. [Query Processing Architecture Guide](#TitleNum_3)
4. [Tutorial: Prepare SQL Server For Replication - Publisher, Distributor, Subscriber](#TitleNum_4)
5. [Tutorial: Configure Replication between Two Fully Connected Servers (Transactional)](#TitleNum_5)
6. [Tutorial: Configure Replication between a Server and Mobile Clients (Merge)](#TitleNum_6)
7. [Query with Full-Text Search](#TitleNum_7)
8. [Transparent Data Encryption with Bring Your Own Key support for Azure SQL Database and Data Warehouse](#TitleNum_8)
9. [PowerShell and CLI: Enable Transparent Data Encryption using your own key from Azure Key Vault](#TitleNum_9)
10. [About Change Data Capture (SQL Server)](#TitleNum_10)




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

<a name="TitleNum_1"/>

### 1. &nbsp; [Use a Format File to Skip a Table Column (SQL Server)](import-export/use-a-format-file-to-skip-a-table-column-sql-server.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-13* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Next](#TitleNum_2))

<!-- Source markdown line 221.  ms.author= "douglasl".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 167916d79c5de1e7f13990cb7acc41ceb541b9a7 cb92eb201292294e3397879c98f353fba45f1c1c  (PR=0  ,  Filename=use-a-format-file-to-skip-a-table-column-sql-server.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\import-export\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=f70f24bff1677b33c661abd13726f491ce32b305) -->



**Using OPENROWSET(BULK...)**


To use an XML format file to skip a table column by using `OPENROWSET(BULK...)`, you have to provide an explicit list of columns in the select list and also in the target table, as follows:

```
    INSERT ...<column_list> SELECT <column_list> FROM OPENROWSET(BULK...)
```

The following example uses the `OPENROWSET` bulk rowset provider and the `myTestSkipCol2.xml` format file. The example bulk imports the `myTestSkipCol2.dat` data file into the `myTestSkipCol` table. The statement contains an explicit list of columns in the select list and also in the target table, as required.

In SSMS, run the following code. Update the file system paths for the location of the sample files on your computer.

```
USE WideWorldImporters;
GO
INSERT INTO myTestSkipCol
  (Col1,Col3)
    SELECT Col1,Col3
      FROM  OPENROWSET(BULK  'C:\myTestSkipCol2.Dat',
      FORMATFILE='C:\myTestSkipCol2.Xml'
       ) as t1 ;
GO
```



&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_2"/>

### 2. &nbsp; [JSON data in SQL Server](json/json-data-sql-server.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-13* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_1) | [Next](#TitleNum_3))

<!-- Source markdown line 145.  ms.author= "jovanpop".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 19e276637a463b412f2c29a84f9fb7d0b0f5fcc5 e2f2e8b4732779b3f24561cc0c4da3a958f4edbb  (PR=0  ,  Filename=json-data-sql-server.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\json\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=f70f24bff1677b33c661abd13726f491ce32b305) -->



JSON documents may have sub-elements and hierarchical data that cannot be directly mapped into the standard relational columns. In this case, you can flatten JSON hierarchy by joining parent entity with sub-arrays.

In the following example, the second object in the array has sub-array representing person skills. Every sub-object can be parsed using additional `OPENJSON` function call:

```
DECLARE @json NVARCHAR(MAX)
SET @json =
N'[
       { "id" : 2,"info": { "name": "John", "surname": "Smith" }, "age": 25 },
       { "id" : 5,"info": { "name": "Jane", "surname": "Smith", "skills": ["SQL", "C#", "Azure"] }, "dob": "2005-11-04T12:00:00" }
 ]'

SELECT *
FROM OPENJSON(@json)
  WITH (id int 'strict $.id',
        firstName nvarchar(50) '$.info.name', lastName nvarchar(50) '$.info.surname',
        age int, dateOfBirth datetime2 '$.dob',
	skills nvarchar(max) '$.skills' as json)
	outer apply openjson( a.skills )
                     with ( skill nvarchar(8) '$' ) as b
```
**skills** array is returned in the first `OPENJSON` as original JSON text fragment and passed to another `OPENJSON` function using `APPLY` operator. The second `OPENJSON` function will parse JSON array and return string values as single column rowset that will be joined with the result of the first `OPENJSON`.
The result of this query is shown in the following table:

**Results**

|id|firstName|lastName|age|dateOfBirth|skill|
|--------|---------------|--------------|---------|-----------------|----------|
|2|John|Smith|25|||
|5|Jane|Smith||2005-11-04T12:00:00|SQL|
|5|Jane|Smith||2005-11-04T12:00:00|C#|
|5|Jane|Smith||2005-11-04T12:00:00|Azure|

`OUTER APPLY OPENJSON` will join first level entity with sub-array and return flatten resultset. Due to JOIN, the second row will be repeated for every skill.




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_3"/>

### 3. &nbsp; [Query Processing Architecture Guide](query-processing-architecture-guide.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-13* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_2) | [Next](#TitleNum_4))

<!-- Source markdown line 34.  ms.author= "jroth".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 96d91b39acdb2f32aaff323e374e92d6f229d241 2c1d2f8585632ada174388399782dc3ed2721dba  (PR=0  ,  Filename=query-processing-architecture-guide.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=f70f24bff1677b33c661abd13726f491ce32b305) -->



**Logical Operator Precedence**


When more than one logical operator is used in a statement, `NOT` is evaluated first, then `AND`, and finally `OR`. Arithmetic, and bitwise, operators are handled before logical operators. For more information, see [Operator Precedence].

In the following example, the color condition pertains to product model 21, and not to product model 20, because `AND` has precedence over `OR`.

```
SELECT ProductID, ProductModelID
FROM Production.Product
WHERE ProductModelID = 20 OR ProductModelID = 21
  AND Color = 'Red';
GO
```

You can change the meaning of the query by adding parentheses to force evaluation of the `OR` first. The following query finds only products under models 20 and 21 that are red.

```
SELECT ProductID, ProductModelID
FROM Production.Product
WHERE (ProductModelID = 20 OR ProductModelID = 21)
  AND Color = 'Red';
GO
```

Using parentheses, even when they are not required, can improve the readability of queries, and reduce the chance of making a subtle mistake because of operator precedence. There is no significant performance penalty in using parentheses. The following example is more readable than the original example, although they are syntactically the same.

```
SELECT ProductID, ProductModelID
FROM Production.Product
WHERE ProductModelID = 20 OR (ProductModelID = 21
  AND Color = 'Red');
GO
```




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_4"/>

### 4. &nbsp; [Tutorial: Prepare SQL Server For Replication - Publisher, Distributor, Subscriber](replication/tutorial-preparing-the-server-for-replication.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-13* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_3) | [Next](#TitleNum_5))

<!-- Source markdown line 56.  ms.author= "mathoma".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 6e5caedacff193ce79bdd98708ae1b9dc91f0a8f 9f7af4d3f8b1cffd048db2a5b29fc9e6013f5ed2  (PR=0  ,  Filename=tutorial-preparing-the-server-for-replication.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\replication\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=f70f24bff1677b33c661abd13726f491ce32b305) -->



- Install [SQL Server Management Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms).
- Install [SQL Server 2017 Developer Edition](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/sql-server-downloads).
- Download an [AdventureWorks Sample Databases](https://github.com/Microsoft/sql-server-samples/releases). For instructions on restoring a database in SSMS, please see [Restoring a Database](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/relational-databases/backup-restore/restore-a-database-backup-using-ssms).

>[!NOTE]
> - Replication is not supported on SQL Servers that are more than two versions apart. For more information, please see [Supported SQL Versions in Repl Topology](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/repltalk/2016/08/12/suppported-sql-server-versions-in-replication-topology/).
> - In  *{Included-Content-Goes-Here}* , you must connect to the Publisher and Subscriber using a login that is a member of the **sysadmin** fixed server role. For more information on the sysadmin role, please see [Server Level Roles](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/relational-databases/security/authentication-access/server-level-roles).


**Estimated time to complete this tutorial:  30 minutes**

**Create Windows Accounts for Replication**

In this section, you will create Windows accounts to run replication agents. You will create a separate Windows account on the local server for the following agents:

|Agent|Location|Account name|
|---------|------------|----------------|
|Snapshot Agent|Publisher|<*machine_name*>\repl_snapshot|



&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_5"/>

### 5. &nbsp; [Tutorial: Configure Replication between Two Fully Connected Servers (Transactional)](replication/tutorial-replicating-data-between-continuously-connected-servers.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-13* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_4) | [Next](#TitleNum_6))

<!-- Source markdown line 162.  ms.author= "mathoma".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 0d74f984d0ffc01cce0376837e6d94df3c5654d7 4ecf4d724286130927dd43687d6845059af6f9b7  (PR=0  ,  Filename=tutorial-replicating-data-between-continuously-connected-servers.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\replication\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=f70f24bff1677b33c661abd13726f491ce32b305) -->



**Create a subscription to the Transactional publication**

In this section, you will add a subscriber to the Publication that was previously created. This tutorial uses a remote subscriber (NODE2\SQL2016) but a subscription can also be added locally to the publisher.

**To create the subscription**


1.  Connect to the Publisher in  *{Included-Content-Goes-Here}* , expand the server node, and then expand the **Replication** folder.

2.  In the **Local Publications** folder, right-click the **AdvWorksProductTrans** publication, and then select **New Subscriptions**.  The New Subscription Wizard launches:

    ![New Subscription]

3.  On the Publication page, select **AdvWorksProductTrans**, and then select **Next**:

    ![Select Tran Publisher]

4.  On the Distribution Agent Location page, select **Run all agents at the Distributor**, and then select **Next**.  For more information on pull and push subscriptions, please see [Subscribe to Publications](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/relational-databases/replication/subscribe-to-publications):

    ![Run Agents at Dist]

5.  On the Subscribers page, if the name of the Subscriber instance is not displayed, select **Add Subscriber** and then select **Add SQL Server Subscriber** from the drop-down. This will launch the **Connect to Server** dialog box. Enter the Subscriber instance name and then select **Connect**.



&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_6"/>

### 6. &nbsp; [Tutorial: Configure Replication between a Server and Mobile Clients (Merge)](replication/tutorial-replicating-data-with-mobile-clients.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-13* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_5) | [Next](#TitleNum_7))

<!-- Source markdown line 93.  ms.author= "mathoma".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 0eed78dfe83c88358c030539a2b25d11ef5ec2d3 79b2a3f32c940fede94b11ad2a3ef8a00b911a39  (PR=0  ,  Filename=tutorial-replicating-data-with-mobile-clients.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\replication\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=f70f24bff1677b33c661abd13726f491ce32b305) -->



The Employee table contains a column (OrganizationNode) that has the hierarchyid data type, which is only supported for replication in SQL 2017. If you're using a build lower than SQL 2017, you'll see a message  at the bottom of the screen notifying you of potential data loss for using this column in bi-directional replication. For the purpose of this tutorial, this message can be ignored. However, this datatype should not be replicated in a production environment unless you're using the supported build. For more inforamtion about replicating the hierarchyid datatype, please see [Using Hierarchyid Columns in Replication](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/t-sql/data-types/hierarchyid-data-type-method-reference#using-hierarchyid-columns-in-replicated-tables)


7.  On the Filter Table Rows page, select **Add** and then select **Add Filter**.

8.  In the **Add Filter** dialog box, select **Employee (HumanResources)** in **Select the table to filter**. Select the **LoginID** column, select the right arrow to add the column to the WHERE clause of the filter query, and modify the WHERE clause as follows:

```
    WHERE [LoginID] = HOST_NAME()
```

    a. Select **A row from this table will go to only one subscription**, and select **OK**:

    ![Add Filter]



10. On the **Filter Table Rows** page, select **Employee (Human Resources)**, select **Add,** and then select **Add Join to Extend the Selected Filter**.

    a. In the **Add Join** dialog box, select **Sales.SalesOrderHeader** under **Joined table**. Select **Write the join statement manually**, and complete the join statement as follows:



&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_7"/>

### 7. &nbsp; [Query with Full-Text Search](search/query-with-full-text-search.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-13* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_6) | [Next](#TitleNum_8))

<!-- Source markdown line 247.  ms.author= "douglasl".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 5ec67b56aa0a6eadadbcfa8b73b6726e75eca2bb 4eb108b202d3dd035a312bac7872cf02bcf31cfa  (PR=0  ,  Filename=query-with-full-text-search.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\search\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=f70f24bff1677b33c661abd13726f491ce32b305) -->



**More info about generation term searches**


The *inflectional forms* are the different tenses and conjugations of a verb or the singular and plural forms of a noun.

For example, search for the inflectional form of the word "drive." If various rows in the table include the words "drive," "drives," "drove," "driving," and "driven," all would be in the result set because each of these can be inflectionally generated from the word drive.

[FREETEXT] and [FREETEXTTABLE] look for inflectional terms of all specified words by default. [CONTAINS] and [CONTAINSTABLE] support an optional `INFLECTIONAL` argument.

**Search for synonyms of a specific word**


A *thesaurus* defines user-specified synonyms for terms. For more info about thesaurus files, see [Configure and Manage Thesaurus Files for Full-Text Search].

For example, if an entry, "{car, automobile, truck, van}," is added to a thesaurus, you can search for the thesaurus form of the word "car." All rows in the table queried that include the words "automobile," "truck," "van," or "car," appear in the result set because each of these words belongs to the synonym expansion set containing the word "car."

[FREETEXT] and [FREETEXTTABLE] use the thesaurus by default. [CONTAINS] and [CONTAINSTABLE] support an optional `THESAURUS` argument.



&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_8"/>

### 8. &nbsp; [Transparent Data Encryption with Bring Your Own Key support for Azure SQL Database and Data Warehouse](security/encryption/transparent-data-encryption-byok-azure-sql.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-24* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_7) | [Next](#TitleNum_9))

<!-- Source markdown line 110.  ms.author= "aliceku".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 9527658848d430bf0148be84474a75b232cbd112 70ed2a129c580962384f808e8526673957f00d2c  (PR=5662  ,  Filename=transparent-data-encryption-byok-azure-sql.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\security\encryption\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=91a9c812739a1c9a6ec9e7b8cda71ee1f5adae3d) -->



**How to configure Geo-DR with Azure Key Vault**


To maintain high availability of TDE Protectors for encrypted databases, it is required to configure redundant Azure Key Vaults based on the existing or desired SQL Database failover groups or active geo-replication instances.  Each geo-replicated server requires a separate key vault, that must be co-located with the server in the same Azure region. Should a primary database become inaccessible due to an outage in one region and a failover is triggered, the secondary database is able to take over using the secondary key vault.

For Geo-Replicated Azure SQL databases, the following Azure Key Vault configuration is required:
- One primary database with a key vault in region and one secondary database with a key vault in region.
- At least one secondary is required, up to four secondaries are supported.
- Secondaries of secondaries (chaining) are not supported.

The following section will go over the setup and configuration steps in more detail.

**Azure Key Vault Configuration Steps**


- Install [PowerShell](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/install-azurerm-ps?view=azurermps-5.6.0)
- Create two Azure Key Vaults in two different regions using [PowerShell to enable the "soft-delete" property](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/key-vault/key-vault-soft-delete-powershell) on the key vaults (this option is not available from the AKV Portal yet – but required by SQL).
- Both Azure Key Vaults must be located in the two regions available in the same Azure Geo in order for backup and restore of keys to work.  If you need the two key vaults to be located in different geos to meet SQL Geo-DR requirements, follow the [BYOK Process](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/key-vault/key-vault-hsm-protected-keys) that allows keys to be imported from an on-prem HSM.



&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_9"/>

### 9. &nbsp; [PowerShell and CLI: Enable Transparent Data Encryption using your own key from Azure Key Vault](security/encryption/transparent-data-encryption-byok-azure-sql-configure.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-24* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_8) | [Next](#TitleNum_10))

<!-- Source markdown line 196.  ms.author= "aliceku".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 a0e00f5701d9a493f503a477c69097ce65aba174 721e8fb856a55ee1e8e9e7fc06036a03adab647b  (PR=5662  ,  Filename=transparent-data-encryption-byok-azure-sql-configure.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\security\encryption\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=91a9c812739a1c9a6ec9e7b8cda71ee1f5adae3d) -->



**Prerequisites for CLI**


- You must have an Azure subscription and be an administrator on that subscription.
- [Recommended but Optional] Have a hardware security module (HSM) or local key store for creating a local copy of the TDE Protector key material.
- Command-Line Interface version 2.0 or later. To install the latest version and connect to your Azure subscription, see [Install and Configure the Azure Cross-Platform Command-Line Interface 2.0](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest).
- Create an Azure Key Vault and Key to use for TDE.
   - [Manage Key Vault using CLI 2.0](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/key-vault/key-vault-manage-with-cli2)
   - [Instructions for using a hardware security module (HSM) and Key Vault](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/key-vault/key-vault-get-started#a-idhsmaif-you-want-to-use-a-hardware-security-module-hsm)
 - The key vault must have the following property to be used for TDE:
   - [soft-delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/key-vault/key-vault-ovw-soft-delete)
   - [How to use Key Vault soft-delete with CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/key-vault/key-vault-soft-delete-cli)
- The key must have the following attributes to be used for TDE:
   - No expiration date
   - Not disabled
   - Able to perform *get*, *wrap key*, *unwrap key* operations

**Step 1. Create a server and assign an Azure AD identity to your server**

      cli
      # create server (with identity) and database



&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_10"/>

### 10. &nbsp; [About Change Data Capture (SQL Server)](track-changes/about-change-data-capture-sql-server.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-17* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_9))

<!-- Source markdown line 112.  ms.author= "jroth".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 588bff652adefd719e799e9777a416b70184c5f8 77ebdbb1b98b24054d5c5afbb3f1d40e94d1e6bc  (PR=5574  ,  Filename=about-change-data-capture-sql-server.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\relational-databases\track-changes\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=bb044a48a6af9b9d8edb178dc8c8bd5658b9ff68) -->



**Working with database and table collation differences**


It is important to be aware of a situation where you have different collations between the database and the columns of a table configured for change data capture. CDC uses interim storage to populate side tables. If a table has CHAR or VARCHAR columns with collations that are different from the database collation and if those columns store non-ASCII characters (such as double byte DBCS characters), CDC might not be able to persist the changed data consistent with the data in the base tables. This is due to the fact that the interim storage variables cannot have collations associated with them.

Please consider one of the following approaches to ensure change captured data is consistent with base tables:

- Use NCHAR or NVARCHAR data type for columns containing non-ASCII data.

- Or, Use the same collation for columns and for the database.

For example, if you have one database that uses a collation of  SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS, consider the following table:

```
CREATE TABLE T1(
     C1 INT PRIMARY KEY,
     C2 VARCHAR(10) collate Chinese_PRC_CI_AI)
```

CDC might fail to capture the binary data for column C2, because its collation is different (Chinese_PRC_CI_AI). Use NVARCHAR to avoid this problem:

```
CREATE TABLE T1(
     C1 INT PRIMARY KEY,
     C2 NVARCHAR(10) collate Chinese_PRC_CI_AI --Unicode data type, CDC works well with this data type)
```







## Similar articles about new or updated articles

This section lists very similar articles for recently updated articles in other subject areas, within our public GitHub.com repository: [MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs/).



#### Subject areas that *do* have new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (11+6): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Advanced Analytics for SQL** docs](../advanced-analytics/new-updated-advanced-analytics.md)
- [New + Updated (18+0): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Analysis Services for SQL** docs](../analysis-services/new-updated-analysis-services.md)
- [New + Updated (218+14): **Connect to SQL** docs](../connect/new-updated-connect.md)
- [New + Updated (14+0): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Database Engine for SQL** docs](../database-engine/new-updated-database-engine.md)
- [New + Updated (3+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Integration Services for SQL** docs](../integration-services/new-updated-integration-services.md)
- [New + Updated (3+3): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Linux for SQL** docs](../linux/new-updated-linux.md)
- [New + Updated (7+10): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Relational Databases for SQL** docs](../relational-databases/new-updated-relational-databases.md)
- [New + Updated (0+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Reporting Services for SQL** docs](../reporting-services/new-updated-reporting-services.md)
- [New + Updated (1+3): &nbsp; &nbsp; **SQL Operations Studio** docs](../sql-operations-studio/new-updated-sql-operations-studio.md)
- [New + Updated (2+3): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Microsoft SQL Server** docs](../sql-server/new-updated-sql-server.md)
- [New + Updated (1+1): &nbsp; &nbsp; **SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)** docs](../ssdt/new-updated-ssdt.md)
- [New + Updated (5+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)** docs](../ssms/new-updated-ssms.md)
- [New + Updated (0+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Transact-SQL** docs](../t-sql/new-updated-t-sql.md)
- [New + Updated (1+1): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Tools for SQL** docs](../tools/new-updated-tools.md)



#### Subject areas that do *not* have any new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (0+0): **Analytics Platform System for SQL** docs](../analytics-platform-system/new-updated-analytics-platform-system.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Quality Services for SQL** docs](../data-quality-services/new-updated-data-quality-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Mining Extensions (DMX) for SQL** docs](../dmx/new-updated-dmx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Master Data Services (MDS) for SQL** docs](../master-data-services/new-updated-master-data-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Multidimensional Expressions (MDX) for SQL** docs](../mdx/new-updated-mdx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) for SQL** docs](../odbc/new-updated-odbc.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **PowerShell for SQL** docs](../powershell/new-updated-powershell.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Samples for SQL** docs](../samples/new-updated-samples.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA)** docs](../ssma/new-updated-ssma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **XQuery for SQL** docs](../xquery/new-updated-xquery.md)

