---
title: Updated - Connect to SQL Server docs | Microsoft Docs
description: Display snippets of updated content for recently changed in documentation, for Connect to Microsoft SQL Server.
services: na
documentationcenter: ''
author: MightyPen
manager: jhubbard
editor: ''
ms.service: na
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.technology: database-engine
ms.custom: UpdArt.exe
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.date: 07/17/2017
ms.author: genemi
ms.workload: connect-to-sql
---
# New and Recently Updated: Connect to SQL Server



Nearly every day Microsoft updates some of its existing articles on its [Docs.Microsoft.com](http://docs.microsoft.com/) documentation website. This article displays excerpts from recently updated articles. Links to new articles might also be listed.

This article is generated by a program that is rerun periodically. Occasionally an excerpt can appear with imperfect formatting, or as markdown from the source article. Images are never displayed here.

Recent updates are reported for the following date range and subject:



- *Date range of updates:* &nbsp; **2017-05-23** &nbsp; -to- &nbsp; **2017-07-17**
- *Subject area:* &nbsp; **Connect to SQL Server**.




&nbsp;

## New Articles Created Recently

The following links jump to new articles which have been added recently.


1. [FIPS Mode](jdbc/fips-mode.md)
2. [Custom Keystore Providers](odbc/custom-keystore-providers.md)
3. [Connecting with bcp](odbc/linux-mac/connecting-with-bcp.md)
4. [Connecting with sqlcmd](odbc/linux-mac/connecting-with-sqlcmd.md)
5. [Connection String Keywords and Data Source Names (DSNs)](odbc/linux-mac/connection-string-keywords-and-data-source-names-dsns.md)
6. [Data Access Tracing with the ODBC Driver on Linux and macOS](odbc/linux-mac/data-access-tracing-with-the-odbc-driver-on-linux.md)
7. [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) for ODBC Linux and macOS](odbc/linux-mac/frequently-asked-questions-faq-for-odbc-linux.md)
8. [Installing the Driver Manager](odbc/linux-mac/installing-the-driver-manager.md)
9. [Installing the Microsoft ODBC Driver for SQL Server on Linux and macOS](odbc/linux-mac/installing-the-microsoft-odbc-driver-for-sql-server.md)
10. [Known Issues in this Version of the Driver](odbc/linux-mac/known-issues-in-this-version-of-the-driver.md)
11. [ODBC Driver on Linux and macOS Support for High Availability and Disaster Recovery](odbc/linux-mac/odbc-driver-on-linux-support-for-high-availability-disaster-recovery.md)
12. [Programming Guidelines](odbc/linux-mac/programming-guidelines.md)
13. [Release Notes for the Microsoft ODBC Driver for SQL Server on Linux and macOS](odbc/linux-mac/release-notes.md)
14. [System Requirements](odbc/linux-mac/system-requirements.md)
15. [Using Integrated Authentication](odbc/linux-mac/using-integrated-authentication.md)
16. [Using Always Encrypted with the ODBC Driver 13.1 for SQL Server](odbc/using-always-encrypted-with-the-odbc-driver.md)
17. [Using Azure Active Directory with the ODBC Driver](odbc/using-azure-active-directory.md)
18. [Using Transparent Network IP Resolution](odbc/using-transparent-network-ip-resolution.md)




&nbsp;

<a name="compactupdatedlist"/>

## Compact List of Articles Updated Recently

This compact list provides links to all the updated articles which are listed in the Excerpts section.



&nbsp;

## Updated Articles with Excerpts

This section displays the excerpts of updates gathered from articles which have recently experienced a large update.

The excerpts displayed here appear separated from their proper semantic context. Also, sometimes an excerpt is separated from important markdown syntax that surrounds it in the actual article. Therefore these excerpts are for general guidance only. The excerpts only enable you to know whether your interests warrant taking the time to click and visit the actual article.

For these and other reasons, do not copy code from these excerpts, and do not take as exact truth any text excerpt. Instead, visit the actual article.



&nbsp;

&nbsp;

<a name="TitleNum_1"/>

### 1. &nbsp; [Download ODBC Driver for SQL Server](odbc/download-odbc-driver-for-sql-server.md)

*Updated: 2017-05-26* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Next](#TitleNum_2))

<!-- Source markdown line 29.  ms.author= "genemi".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 897f2c162bb10b137d167ced6e6ca4eecb309a71 2b472e0b20f02e523902aa3acc79257ec0f8af3f  (PR=1835  ,  Filename=download-odbc-driver-for-sql-server.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\connect\odbc\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=760437811d11be3c91dd47b7418979e2fc11f660) -->



- [Debian 8 .deb packages](https://packages.microsoft.com/debian/8/prod/pool/main/m/msodbcsql/)
- [RedHat 6 .rpm packages](https://packages.microsoft.com/rhel/6.8/prod/)
- [RedHat 7 .rpm packages](https://packages.microsoft.com/rhel/7/prod/)
- [SuSE 12 .rpm packages](https://packages.microsoft.com/sles/12/prod/)
- [Ubuntu 15.10 .deb packages](https://packages.microsoft.com/ubuntu/15.10/prod/pool/main/m/msodbcsql/)
- [Ubuntu 16.04 .deb packages](https://packages.microsoft.com/ubuntu/16.04/prod/pool/main/m/msodbcsql/)
- [Ubuntu 16.10 .deb packages](https://packages.microsoft.com/ubuntu/16.10/prod/pool/main/m/msodbcsql/)

- [OS X 10.11 and macOS 10.12 Homebrew formulae](https://github.com/Microsoft/homebrew-mssql-release)

See also [Installing the Driver--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/installing-the-microsoft-odbc-driver-for-sql-server.md).

**Microsoft ODBC Driver 13 for SQL Server  **


**All Platforms  **


- [Download the Microsoft ODBC Driver 13 for SQL Server - All Platforms](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=50420)

**Windows**


- [Download the Microsoft Command Line Utilities 13 for SQL Server](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=52680)

**Microsoft ODBC Driver 11 for SQL Server  **


**Windows**


- [Download the Microsoft ODBC Driver 11 for SQL Server on Windows](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=36434)  

- [Download the Microsoft Command Line Utilities 11 for SQL Server](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=36433)  

**Linux**


- **Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5 and 6 (64-bit)** [Download Microsoft ODBC Driver 11 for SQL Server - Red Hat Linux](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=267321)  




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_2"/>

### 2. &nbsp; [Microsoft ODBC Driver for SQL Server](odbc/microsoft-odbc-driver-for-sql-server.md)

*Updated: 2017-05-26* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_1))

<!-- Source markdown line 29.  ms.author= "genemi".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 f3c737f9b788a330835ca7d9492b617cc71d5d04 f909b2ca7781677a085e3502c680fce2ef1558a6  (PR=1835  ,  Filename=microsoft-odbc-driver-for-sql-server.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\connect\odbc\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=760437811d11be3c91dd47b7418979e2fc11f660) -->



**Linux and macOS**


- [Installing the Driver--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/installing-the-microsoft-odbc-driver-for-sql-server.md)
- [Connecting with **bcp**--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/connecting-with-bcp.md)
- [Connecting with **sqlcmd**--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/connecting-with-sqlcmd.md)
- [Using Integrated Authentication (Kerberos)--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/using-integrated-authentication.md)
- [Connection String Keywords and Data Source Names--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/connection-string-keywords-and-data-source-names-dsns.md)
- [Data Access Tracing--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/data-access-tracing-with-the-odbc-driver-on-linux.md)
- [Frequently Asked Questions--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/frequently-asked-questions-faq-for-odbc-linux.md)
- [Installing the Driver Manager--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/installing-the-driver-manager.md)
- [Known Issues--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/known-issues-in-this-version-of-the-driver.md)
- [Programming Guidelines--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/programming-guidelines.md)
- [Release Notes--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/release-notes.md)
- [Support for High Availability and Disaster Recovery--../../connect/odbc/linux-mac/odbc-driver-on-linux-support-for-high-availability-disaster-recovery.md)

**Windows**


- [Asynchronous Execution (Notification Method) Sample--../../connect/odbc/windows/asynchronous-execution-notification-method-sample.md)
- [Connection Resiliency in the Windows ODBC Driver--../../connect/odbc/windows/connection-resiliency-in-the-windows-odbc-driver.md)
- [Driver-Aware Connection Pooling--../../connect/odbc/windows/driver-aware-connection-pooling-in-the-odbc-driver-for-sql-server.md)
- [Features and Behavior Changes--../../connect/odbc/windows/features-of-the-microsoft-odbc-driver-for-sql-server-on-windows.md)
- [Release Notes--../../connect/odbc/windows/release-notes.md)





<a name="similars2"/>

&nbsp;

## Sister Articles

This section lists very similar articles for recently updated articles in other subject areas, within the same GitHub.com repository: [MicrosoftDocs/**sql-docs-pr**](https://github.com/microsoftdocs/sql-docs-pr/).

<!--  20170717-1101  -->

#### Subject areas which do have new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (4+4) : **Advanced Analystics for SQL** docs](../advanced-analytics/new-updated-advanced-analytics.md)
- [New + Updated (2+0) : **Analysis Services for SQL** docs](../analysis-services/new-updated-analysis-services.md)
- [New + Updated (1+2) : **Connect to SQL** docs](../connect/new-updated-connect.md)
- [New + Updated (6+0) : **Database Engine for SQL** docs](../database-engine/new-updated-database-engine.md)
- [New + Updated (13+2): **Linux for SQL** docs](../linux/new-updated-linux.md)
- [New + Updated (1+0) : **Master Data Services (MDS) for SQL** docs](../master-data-services/new-updated-master-data-services.md)
- [New + Updated (1+0) : **ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) for SQL** docs](../odbc/new-updated-odbc.md)
- [New + Updated (8+4) : **Relational Databases for SQL** docs](../relational-databases/new-updated-relational-databases.md)
- [New + Updated (2+2) : **Microsoft SQL Server** docs](../sql-server/new-updated-sql-server.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1) : **SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)** docs](../ssms/new-updated-ssms.md)
- [New + Updated (1+0) : **Transact-SQL** docs](../t-sql/new-updated-t-sql.md)
- [New + Updated (1+0) : **Tools for SQL** docs](../tools/new-updated-tools.md)


#### Subject areas which have no new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (0+0): **ActiveX Data Objects (ADO) for SQL** docs](../ado/new-updated-ado.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Quality Services for SQL** docs](../data-quality-services/new-updated-data-quality-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Mining Extensions (DMX) for SQL** docs](../dmx/new-updated-dmx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Integration Services for SQL** docs](../integration-services/new-updated-integration-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Multidimensional Expressions (MDX) for SQL** docs](../mdx/new-updated-mdx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **PowerShell for SQL** docs](../powershell/new-updated-powershell.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Reporting Services for SQL** docs](../reporting-services/new-updated-reporting-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Samples for SQL** docs](../sample/new-updated-sample.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)** docs](../ssdt/new-updated-ssdt.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA)** docs](../ssma/new-updated-ssma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **XQuery for SQL** docs](../xquery/new-updated-xquery.md)


&nbsp;

