docs/integration-services/ssis-quickstart-run-powershell.md, before:

---
title: "Run an SSIS package with PowerShell | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: "05/21/2018"
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "integration-services"
ms.custom: ""
ms.technology: integration-services
author: janinezhang
ms.author: janinez
manager: craigg
---
# Run an SSIS package with PowerShell
This quickstart demonstrates how to use a PowerShell script to connect to a database server and run an SSIS package.

## Prerequisites

An Azure SQL Database server listens on port 1433. If you're trying to connect to an Azure SQL Database server from within a corporate firewall, this port must be open in the corporate firewall for you to connect successfully.

## Supported platforms

You can use the information in this quickstart to run an SSIS package on the following platforms:

-   SQL Server on Windows.

-   Azure SQL Database. For more info about deploying and running packages in Azure, see [Lift and shift SQL Server Integration Services workloads to the cloud](lift-shift/ssis-azure-lift-shift-ssis-packages-overview.md).

You cannot use the information in this quickstart to run an SSIS package on Linux. For more info about running packages on Linux, see [Extract, transform, and load data on Linux with SSIS](../linux/sql-server-linux-migrate-ssis.md).

## For Azure SQL Database, get the connection info

To run the package on Azure SQL Database, get the connection information you need to connect to the SSIS Catalog database (SSISDB). You need the fully qualified server name and login information in the procedures that follow.

1. Log in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
2. Select **SQL Databases** from the left-hand menu, and then select the SSISDB database on the **SQL databases** page. 
3. On the **Overview** page for your database, review the fully qualified server name. To see the **Click to copy** option, hover over the server name. 
4. If you forget your Azure SQL Database server login information, navigate to the SQL Database server page to view the server admin name. You can reset the password if necessary.
5. Click **Show database connection strings**.
6. Review the complete **ADO.NET** connection string.

## PowerShell script
Provide appropriate values for the variables at the top of the following script, and then run the script to run the SSIS package.

> [!NOTE]
> The following example uses Windows Authentication. To use SQL Server authentication, replace the `Integrated Security=SSPI;` argument with `User ID=<user name>;Password=<password>;`. If you're connecting to an Azure SQL Database server, you can't use Windows authentication. 

```powershell
# Variables
$SSISNamespace = "Microsoft.SqlServer.Management.IntegrationServices"
$TargetServerName = "localhost"
$TargetFolderName = "Project1Folder"
$ProjectName = "Integration Services Project1"
$PackageName = "Package.dtsx"

# Load the IntegrationServices assembly
$loadStatus = [System.Reflection.Assembly]::Load("Microsoft.SQLServer.Management.IntegrationServices, "+
    "Version=14.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=89845dcd8080cc91, processorArchitecture=MSIL")

# Create a connection to the server
$sqlConnectionString = `
    "Data Source=" + $TargetServerName + ";Initial Catalog=master;Integrated Security=SSPI;"
$sqlConnection = New-Object System.Data.SqlClient.SqlConnection $sqlConnectionString

# Create the Integration Services object
$integrationServices = New-Object $SSISNamespace".IntegrationServices" $sqlConnection

# Get the Integration Services catalog
$catalog = $integrationServices.Catalogs["SSISDB"]

# Get the folder
$folder = $catalog.Folders[$TargetFolderName]

# Get the project
$project = $folder.Projects[$ProjectName]

# Get the package
$package = $project.Packages[$PackageName]

Write-Host "Running " $PackageName "..."

$result = $package.Execute("false", $null)

Write-Host "Done."
```

## Next steps
- Consider other ways to run a package.
    - [Run an SSIS package with SSMS](./ssis-quickstart-run-ssms.md)
    - [Run an SSIS package with Transact-SQL (SSMS)](./ssis-quickstart-run-tsql-ssms.md)
    - [Run an SSIS package with Transact-SQL (VS Code)](ssis-quickstart-run-tsql-vscode.md)
    - [Run an SSIS package from the command prompt](./ssis-quickstart-run-cmdline.md)
    - [Run an SSIS package with C#](./ssis-quickstart-run-dotnet.md)

Commit message:

Added example for SSIS PowerShell Provider

docs/integration-services/ssis-quickstart-run-powershell.md, after:

---
title: "Run an SSIS package with PowerShell | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: "05/21/2018"
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "integration-services"
ms.custom: ""
ms.technology: integration-services
author: janinezhang
ms.author: janinez
manager: craigg
---
# Run an SSIS package with PowerShell
This quickstart demonstrates how to use a PowerShell script to connect to a database server and run an SSIS package.

## Prerequisites

An Azure SQL Database server listens on port 1433. If you're trying to connect to an Azure SQL Database server from within a corporate firewall, this port must be open in the corporate firewall for you to connect successfully.

## Supported platforms

You can use the information in this quickstart to run an SSIS package on the following platforms:

-   SQL Server on Windows.

-   Azure SQL Database. For more info about deploying and running packages in Azure, see [Lift and shift SQL Server Integration Services workloads to the cloud](lift-shift/ssis-azure-lift-shift-ssis-packages-overview.md).

You cannot use the information in this quickstart to run an SSIS package on Linux. For more info about running packages on Linux, see [Extract, transform, and load data on Linux with SSIS](../linux/sql-server-linux-migrate-ssis.md).

## For Azure SQL Database, get the connection info

To run the package on Azure SQL Database, get the connection information you need to connect to the SSIS Catalog database (SSISDB). You need the fully qualified server name and login information in the procedures that follow.

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
2. Select **SQL Databases** from the left-hand menu, and then select the SSISDB database on the **SQL databases** page. 
3. On the **Overview** page for your database, review the fully qualified server name. To see the **Click to copy** option, hover over the server name. 
4. If you forget your Azure SQL Database server login information, navigate to the SQL Database server page to view the server admin name. You can reset the password if necessary.
5. Click **Show database connection strings**.
6. Review the complete **ADO.NET** connection string.

## SSIS PowerShell Provider
You can use the SSIS PowerShell Provider to connect to an SSIS catalog and execute packages within it.

Below is a basic example of how to execute an SSIS package in a package catalog with the SSIS PowerShell Provider.

```powershell
(Get-ChildItem SQLSERVER:\SSIS\localhost\Default\Catalogs\SSISDB\Folders\Project1Folder\Projects\'Integration Services Project1'\Packages\ |
WHERE { $_.Name -eq 'Package.dtsx' }).Execute("false", $null)
```

## PowerShell script
Provide appropriate values for the variables at the top of the following script, and then run the script to run the SSIS package.

> [!NOTE]
> The following example uses Windows Authentication. To use SQL Server authentication, replace the `Integrated Security=SSPI;` argument with `User ID=<user name>;Password=<password>;`. If you're connecting to an Azure SQL Database server, you can't use Windows authentication. 

```powershell
# Variables
$SSISNamespace = "Microsoft.SqlServer.Management.IntegrationServices"
$TargetServerName = "localhost"
$TargetFolderName = "Project1Folder"
$ProjectName = "Integration Services Project1"
$PackageName = "Package.dtsx"

# Load the IntegrationServices assembly
$loadStatus = [System.Reflection.Assembly]::Load("Microsoft.SQLServer.Management.IntegrationServices, "+
    "Version=14.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=89845dcd8080cc91, processorArchitecture=MSIL")

# Create a connection to the server
$sqlConnectionString = `
    "Data Source=" + $TargetServerName + ";Initial Catalog=master;Integrated Security=SSPI;"
$sqlConnection = New-Object System.Data.SqlClient.SqlConnection $sqlConnectionString

# Create the Integration Services object
$integrationServices = New-Object $SSISNamespace".IntegrationServices" $sqlConnection

# Get the Integration Services catalog
$catalog = $integrationServices.Catalogs["SSISDB"]

# Get the folder
$folder = $catalog.Folders[$TargetFolderName]

# Get the project
$project = $folder.Projects[$ProjectName]

# Get the package
$package = $project.Packages[$PackageName]

Write-Host "Running " $PackageName "..."

$result = $package.Execute("false", $null)

Write-Host "Done."
```

## Next steps
- Consider other ways to run a package.
    - [Run an SSIS package with SSMS](./ssis-quickstart-run-ssms.md)
    - [Run an SSIS package with Transact-SQL (SSMS)](./ssis-quickstart-run-tsql-ssms.md)
    - [Run an SSIS package with Transact-SQL (VS Code)](ssis-quickstart-run-tsql-vscode.md)
    - [Run an SSIS package from the command prompt](./ssis-quickstart-run-cmdline.md)
    - [Run an SSIS package with C#](./ssis-quickstart-run-dotnet.md)
