docs/reporting-services/lesson-3-defining-a-dataset-for-the-table-report-reporting-services.md, before:

---
title: "Lesson 3: Defining a Dataset for the Table Report (Reporting Services) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 04/29/2019
ms.prod: reporting-services
ms.prod_service: "reporting-services-native"
ms.technology: reporting-services

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: ee93dfcb-8f52-4d63-b4f6-0d38e00fd350
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
---
# Lesson 3: Defining a Dataset for the Table Report (Reporting Services)

After you define the data source, you need to define a dataset. In [!INCLUDE[ssrsnoversion](../includes/ssrsnoversion-md.md)], data that you use in reports is contained in a *dataset*. A dataset includes a pointer to a data source and a query to be used by the report, as well as calculated fields and variables.  
  
Use the query designer in **Report Designer** to define the dataset. For this tutorial, you will create a query that retrieves sales order information from the [!INCLUDE [sssampledbadventureworks2016-md](../includes/sssampledbadventureworks2016-md.md)] database.  
  
## Define a Transact-SQL query for report data  
  
1. In the **Report Data** pane, select **New** > **Dataset...**. The **Dataset Properties** dialog box opens with the *Query* section displayed.

    ![vs-data_set_properties_dialog](media/lesson-3-defining-a-dataset-for-the-table-report-reporting-services/vs-dataset-properties-dialog.png)
  
2. In the **Name:** text box, type **AdventureWorksDataset**.
  
3. Below that, select the **Use a dataset embedded in my report** radio button.
  
4. Fromm the **Data source:** dropdown, select [!INCLUDE [ssSampleDBAdventureworks2016_md](../includes/sssampledbadventureworks2016-md.md)].

5. For the **Query type**, select the **Text** radio button.  
  
6. Type, or copy and paste, the following Transact-SQL query into the **Query** text box.  
  
    ```T-SQL
    SELECT
       soh.OrderDate AS [Date],
       soh.SalesOrderNumber AS [Order],
       pps.Name AS [Subcat],
       pp.Name as [Product],
       SUM(sd.OrderQty) AS [Qty],
       SUM(sd.LineTotal) AS [LineTotal]
    FROM Sales.SalesPerson sp
    INNER JOIN Sales.SalesOrderHeader AS soh
          ON sp.BusinessEntityID = soh.SalesPersonID
       INNER JOIN Sales.SalesOrderDetail AS sd
          ON sd.SalesOrderID = soh.SalesOrderID
       INNER JOIN Production.Product AS pp
          ON sd.ProductID = pp.ProductID
       INNER JOIN Production.ProductSubcategory AS pps
          ON pp.ProductSubcategoryID = pps.ProductSubcategoryID
       INNER JOIN Production.ProductCategory AS ppc
          ON ppc.ProductCategoryID = pps.ProductCategoryID
    GROUP BY ppc.Name, soh.OrderDate, soh.SalesOrderNumber, pps.Name, pp.Name,soh.SalesPersonID  
    HAVING ppc.Name = 'Clothing'
    ```

7. (Optional) Select the **Query Designer** button. The query is displayed in the text-based *Query Designer*. View the results of the query by selecting the run 
    ![ssrs_querydesigner_run](media/ssrs-querydesigner-run.png)
     button on the *Query Designer* toolbar.

    You see the data from six fields from four different tables in the [!INCLUDE [ssSampleDBAdventureworks2016_md](../includes/sssampledbadventureworks2016-md.md)] database. The query makes use of Transact-SQL functionality such as aliases. For example, the SalesOrderHeader table is called *soh*.

8. Select the **OK** button to exit the *Query Designer*.

9. Select the **OK** button to exit the **Dataset Properties** dialog box.

The **AdventureWorksDataset** dataset and fields now appear in the Report Data pane.

    ![ssrs_adventureworksdataset](../reporting-services/media/ssrs-adventureworksdataset.png)

## Next task

You have successfully specified a query that retrieves data for your report. Next, you will create the report layout. Continue with [Lesson 4: Adding a Table to the Report &#40;Reporting Services&#41;](lesson-4-adding-a-table-to-the-report-reporting-services.md).

## See also

[Query Design Tools &#40;SSRS&#41;](../reporting-services/report-data/query-design-tools-ssrs.md)
[SQL Server Connection Type &#40;SSRS&#41;](../reporting-services/report-data/sql-server-connection-type-ssrs.md)
[Tutorial: Writing Transact-SQL Statements](../t-sql/tutorial-writing-transact-sql-statements.md)

Commit message:

ccsmike:Eliminated includes for AdventureWorks2016

docs/reporting-services/lesson-3-defining-a-dataset-for-the-table-report-reporting-services.md, after:

---
title: "Lesson 3: Defining a Dataset for the Table Report (Reporting Services) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 04/29/2019
ms.prod: reporting-services
ms.prod_service: "reporting-services-native"
ms.technology: reporting-services

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: ee93dfcb-8f52-4d63-b4f6-0d38e00fd350
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
---
# Lesson 3: Defining a Dataset for the Table Report (Reporting Services)

After you define the data source, you need to define a dataset. In [!INCLUDE[ssrsnoversion](../includes/ssrsnoversion-md.md)], data that you use in reports is contained in a *dataset*. A dataset includes a pointer to a data source and a query to be used by the report, as well as calculated fields and variables.  
  
Use the query designer in **Report Designer** to define the dataset. For this tutorial, you will create a query that retrieves sales order information from the **AdventureWorks2016** database.  
  
## Define a Transact-SQL query for report data  
  
1. In the **Report Data** pane, select **New** > **Dataset...**. The **Dataset Properties** dialog box opens with the *Query* section displayed.

    ![vs-data_set_properties_dialog](media/lesson-3-defining-a-dataset-for-the-table-report-reporting-services/vs-dataset-properties-dialog.png)
  
2. In the **Name:** text box, type **AdventureWorksDataset**.
  
3. Below that, select the **Use a dataset embedded in my report** radio button.
  
4. Fromm the **Data source:** dropdown, select **AdventureWorks2016**.

5. For the **Query type**, select the **Text** radio button.  
  
6. Type, or copy and paste, the following Transact-SQL query into the **Query** text box.  
  
    ```T-SQL
    SELECT
       soh.OrderDate AS [Date],
       soh.SalesOrderNumber AS [Order],
       pps.Name AS [Subcat],
       pp.Name as [Product],
       SUM(sd.OrderQty) AS [Qty],
       SUM(sd.LineTotal) AS [LineTotal]
    FROM Sales.SalesPerson sp
    INNER JOIN Sales.SalesOrderHeader AS soh
          ON sp.BusinessEntityID = soh.SalesPersonID
       INNER JOIN Sales.SalesOrderDetail AS sd
          ON sd.SalesOrderID = soh.SalesOrderID
       INNER JOIN Production.Product AS pp
          ON sd.ProductID = pp.ProductID
       INNER JOIN Production.ProductSubcategory AS pps
          ON pp.ProductSubcategoryID = pps.ProductSubcategoryID
       INNER JOIN Production.ProductCategory AS ppc
          ON ppc.ProductCategoryID = pps.ProductCategoryID
    GROUP BY ppc.Name, soh.OrderDate, soh.SalesOrderNumber, pps.Name, pp.Name,soh.SalesPersonID  
    HAVING ppc.Name = 'Clothing'
    ```

7. (Optional) Select the **Query Designer** button. The query is displayed in the text-based *Query Designer*. View the results of the query by selecting the run 
    ![ssrs_querydesigner_run](media/ssrs-querydesigner-run.png)
     button on the *Query Designer* toolbar.

    You see the data from six fields from four different tables in the **AdventureWorks2016** database. The query makes use of Transact-SQL functionality such as aliases. For example, the SalesOrderHeader table is called *soh*.

8. Select the **OK** button to exit the *Query Designer*.

9. Select the **OK** button to exit the **Dataset Properties** dialog box.

The **AdventureWorksDataset** dataset and fields now appear in the Report Data pane.

![ssrs_adventureworksdataset](media/ssrs-adventureworksdataset.png)

## Next task

You have successfully specified a query that retrieves data for your report. Next, you will create the report layout. Continue with [Lesson 4: Adding a Table to the Report &#40;Reporting Services&#41;](lesson-4-adding-a-table-to-the-report-reporting-services.md).

## See also

[Query Design Tools &#40;SSRS&#41;](../reporting-services/report-data/query-design-tools-ssrs.md)
[SQL Server Connection Type &#40;SSRS&#41;](../reporting-services/report-data/sql-server-connection-type-ssrs.md)
[Tutorial: Writing Transact-SQL Statements](../t-sql/tutorial-writing-transact-sql-statements.md)
