azure-sql/database/azure-sql-python-quickstart.md, before:

---
title: Connect to and query Azure SQL Database using Python and the pyodbc library
description: Learn how to connect to a database in Azure SQL Database and query data using Python and the pyodbc library.
author: bobtabor-msft
ms.author: rotabor
ms.reviewer: mathoma
ms.custom: passwordless-python
ms.date: 03/21/2024
ms.service: azure-sql-database
ms.subservice: security
ms.topic: quickstart
monikerRange: "= azuresql || = azuresql-db"
content_well_notification: 
  - AI-contribution
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# Connect to and query Azure SQL Database using Python and the pyodbc driver
[!INCLUDE[appliesto-sqldb](../includes/appliesto-sqldb.md)]

This quickstart describes how to connect an application to a database in Azure SQL Database and perform queries using Python and the [Python SQL Driver - pyodbc](/sql/connect/python/pyodbc/python-sql-driver-pyodbc). This quickstart follows the recommended passwordless approach to connect to the database. You can learn more about passwordless connections on the [passwordless hub](/azure/developer/intro/passwordless-overview).

## Prerequisites

* An [Azure subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/python/).
* An Azure SQL database configured with Microsoft Entra authentication. You can create one using the [Create database quickstart](./single-database-create-quickstart.md).
* The latest version of the [Azure CLI](/cli/azure/get-started-with-azure-cli).
* Visual Studio Code with the [Python extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python).
* Python 3.8 or later. If you're using a Linux client machine, see [Install the ODBC driver](/sql/connect/python/pyodbc/step-1-configure-development-environment-for-pyodbc-python-development?tabs=linux#install-the-odbc-driver).

## Configure the database

[!INCLUDE [passwordless-configure-server-networking](../includes/passwordless-configure-server-networking.md)]

## Create the project

Create a new Python project using Visual Studio Code.

1. Open Visual Studio Code and create a new folder for your project and change directory into it.

    ```Cmd
    mkdir python-sql-azure
    cd python-sql-azure
    ```

1. Create a virtual environment for the app.

    #### [Windows](#tab/windows)

    ```Cmd
    py -m venv .venv
    .venv\scripts\activate
    ```

    #### [macOS/Linux](#tab/mac-linux)

    ```Bash
    python3 -m venv .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
    ```

    ---

1. Create a new Python file called `app.py`.

## Install the pyodbc driver

To connect to Azure SQL Database using Python, install the `pyodbc` driver. This package acts as a data provider for connecting to databases, executing commands, and retrieving results. In this quickstart, you also install `flask`, `uvicorn`, and `pydantic` packages to create and run an API.

For details and specific instructions for installing the `pyodbc` driver on all operating systems, see [Configure development environment for pyodbc Python development](/sql/connect/python/pyodbc/step-1-configure-development-environment-for-pyodbc-python-development).

1. Create a *requirements.txt* file with the following lines:

    ```
    pyodbc
    fastapi
    uvicorn[standard]
    pydantic
    azure-identity
    ```

2. Install the requirements.

    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Configure the local connection string

For local development and connecting to Azure SQL Database, add the following `AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING` environment variable. Replace the `<database-server-name>` and `<database-name>` placeholders with your own values. Example environment variables are shown for the Bash shell.

Interactive authentication provides a passwordless option when you're running locally.

## [Interactive Authentication](#tab/sql-inter)

In Windows, Microsoft Entra Interactive Authentication can use Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication technology to set up connection. In this mode, by providing the sign in ID, an Azure Authentication dialog is triggered and allows the user to input the password to complete the connection.

```Bash
export AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING='Driver={ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server};Server=tcp:<database-server-name>.database.windows.net,1433;Database=<database-name>;Encrypt=yes;TrustServerCertificate=no;Connection Timeout=30'
```

For more information, see [Using Microsoft Entra ID with the ODBC Driver](/sql/connect/odbc/using-azure-active-directory). If you use this option, look for the window that prompts you for credentials.

## [SQL Authentication](#tab/sql-auth)

You can directly authenticate to a SQL Server instance using a username and password.

```Bash
export AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING='Driver={ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server};Server=tcp:<database-server-name>.database.windows.net,1433;Database=<database-name>;UID=<user-name>;PWD=<user-password>;Encrypt=yes;TrustServerCertificate=no;Connection Timeout=30'
```

> [!WARNING]
> Use caution when managing connection strings that contain secrets such as usernames, passwords, or access keys. These secrets shouldn't be committed to source control or placed in unsecure locations where they might be accessed by unintended users. During local development, on a real app, you'll generally connect to a local database that doesn't require storing secrets or connecting directly to Azure.

---

You can get the details to create your connection string from the Azure portal:

1. Go to the Azure SQL Server, select the **SQL databases** page to find your database name, and select the database.

2. On the database, go to the **Connection strings** page to get connection string information. Look under the **ODBC** tab.

> [!NOTE]
> If you've installed [Azure Arc](/azure/azure-arc/overview) and associated it with your Azure subscription, you can also use the managed identity approach shown for the app deployed to App Service.

## Add code to connect to Azure SQL Database

In the project folder, create an *app.py* file and add the sample code. This code creates an API that:

* Retrieves an Azure SQL Database connection string from an environment variable.
* Creates a `Persons` table in the database during startup (for testing scenarios only).
* Defines a function to retrieve all `Person` records from the database.
* Defines a function to retrieve one `Person` record from the database.
* Defines a function to add new `Person` records to the database.

```python
import os
import pyodbc, struct
from azure import identity

from typing import Union
from fastapi import FastAPI
from pydantic import BaseModel

class Person(BaseModel):
    first_name: str
    last_name: Union[str, None] = None
    
connection_string = os.environ["AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING"]

app = FastAPI()

@app.get("/")
def root():
    print("Root of Person API")
    try:
        conn = get_conn()
        cursor = conn.cursor()

        # Table should be created ahead of time in production app.
        cursor.execute("""
            CREATE TABLE Persons (
                ID int NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY IDENTITY,
                FirstName varchar(255),
                LastName varchar(255)
            );
        """)

        conn.commit()
    except Exception as e:
        # Table may already exist
        print(e)
    return "Person API"

@app.get("/all")
def get_persons():
    rows = []
    with get_conn() as conn:
        cursor = conn.cursor()
        cursor.execute("SELECT * FROM Persons")

        for row in cursor.fetchall():
            print(row.FirstName, row.LastName)
            rows.append(f"{row.ID}, {row.FirstName}, {row.LastName}")
    return rows

@app.get("/person/{person_id}")
def get_person(person_id: int):
    with get_conn() as conn:
        cursor = conn.cursor()
        cursor.execute("SELECT * FROM Persons WHERE ID = ?", person_id)

        row = cursor.fetchone()
        return f"{row.ID}, {row.FirstName}, {row.LastName}"

@app.post("/person")
def create_person(item: Person):
    with get_conn() as conn:
        cursor = conn.cursor()
        cursor.execute(f"INSERT INTO Persons (FirstName, LastName) VALUES (?, ?)", item.first_name, item.last_name)
        conn.commit()

    return item

def get_conn():
    credential = identity.DefaultAzureCredential(exclude_interactive_browser_credential=False)
    token_bytes = credential.get_token("https://database.windows.net/.default").token.encode("UTF-16-LE")
    token_struct = struct.pack(f'<I{len(token_bytes)}s', len(token_bytes), token_bytes)
    SQL_COPT_SS_ACCESS_TOKEN = 1256  # This connection option is defined by microsoft in msodbcsql.h
    conn = pyodbc.connect(connection_string, attrs_before={SQL_COPT_SS_ACCESS_TOKEN: token_struct})
    return conn
```

> [!WARNING]
> The sample code shows raw SQL statements, which shouldn't be used in production code. Instead, use an Object Relational Mapper (ORM) package like [SqlAlchemy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/) that generates a more secure object layer to access your database.

## Run and test the app locally

The app is ready to be tested locally.

1. Run the `app.py` file in Visual Studio Code.

    ```console
    uvicorn app:app --reload
    ```

1. On the Swagger UI page for the app [http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs](http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs), expand the POST method and select **Try it out**.

    You can also use try */redoc* to see another form of generated documentation for the API.

1. Modify the sample JSON to include values for the first and last name. Select **Execute** to add a new record to the database. The API returns a successful response.

1. Expand the **GET** method on the Swagger UI page and select **Try it**. Choose **Execute**, and the person you just created is returned.

## Deploy to Azure App Service

The app is ready to be deployed to Azure.

1. Create a *start.sh* file so that gunicorn in Azure App Service can run uvicorn. The *start.sh* has one line:

    ```console
    gunicorn -w 4 -k uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker app:app
    ```

1. Use the [az webapp up](/cli/azure/webapp#az-webapp-up) to deploy the code to App Service. (You can use the option `-dryrun` to see what the command does without creating the resource.)

    ```azurecli
    az webapp up \
        --resource-group <resource-group-name> \
        --name <web-app-name>         
    ```

1. Use the [az webapp config set](/cli/azure/webapp/config#az-webapp-config-set) command to configure App Service to use the *start.sh* file.

    ```azurecli
    az webapp config set \
        --resource-group <resource-group-name> \
        --name <web-app-name> \
        --startup-file start.sh
    ```

1. Use the [az webapp identity assign](/cli/azure/webapp/identity#az-webapp-identity-assign) command to enable a system-assigned managed identity for the App Service.

    ```azurecli
    az webapp identity assign \
        --resource-group <resource-group-name> \
        --name <web-app-name>
    ```

    In this quickstart, a system-assigned managed identity is used for demonstration. A user-assigned managed identity is more efficient in a broader range of scenarios. For more information, see [Managed identity best practice recommendations](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/managed-identity-best-practice-recommendations). For an example of using a user-assigned managed identity with pyodbc, see [Migrate a Python application to use passwordless connections with Azure SQL Database](./azure-sql-passwordless-migration-python.md).

## Connect the App Service to Azure SQL Database

In the [Configure the database](#configure-the-database) section, you configured networking and Microsoft Entra authentication for the Azure SQL database server. In this section, you complete the database configuration and configure the App Service with a connection string to access the database server.

To run these commands you can use any tool or IDE that can connect to Azure SQL Database, including [SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)](/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms), [Azure Data Studio](/azure-data-studio/what-is-azure-data-studio), and Visual Studio Code with the [SQL server mssql](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-mssql.mssql) extension. As well, you can use the Azure portal as described in [Quickstart: Use the Azure portal query editor to query Azure SQL Database](/azure/azure-sql/database/connect-query-portal).

1. Add a user to the Azure SQL Database with SQL commands to create a user and role for passwordless access.

    ```sql
    CREATE USER [<web-app-name>] FROM EXTERNAL PROVIDER
    ALTER ROLE db_datareader ADD MEMBER [<web-app-name>]
    ALTER ROLE db_datawriter ADD MEMBER [<web-app-name>]
    ```

    For more information, see [Contained Database Users - Making Your Database Portable](/sql/relational-databases/security/contained-database-users-making-your-database-portable). For an example that shows the same principle but applied to Azure VM, see [Tutorial: Use a Windows VM system-assigned managed identity to access Azure SQL](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/tutorial-windows-vm-access-sql). For more information about the roles assigned, see [Fixed-database Roles](/sql/relational-databases/security/authentication-access/database-level-roles#fixed-database-roles).

    If you disable and then enable the App Service system-assigned managed identity, then drop the user and recreate it. Run `DROP USER [<web-app-name>]` and rerun the `CREATE` and `ALTER` commands. To see users, use `SELECT * FROM sys.database_principals`.

1. Use the [az webapp config appsettings set](/cli/azure/webapp/config/appsettings#az-webapp-config-appsettings-set) command to add an app setting for the connection string.

    ```azurecli
    az webapp config appsettings set \
        --resource-group <resource-group-name> \
        --name <web-app-name> \
        --settings AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING="<connection-string>"
    ```

    For the deployed app, the connection string should resemble:

    ```
    Driver={ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server};Server=tcp:<database-server-name>.database.windows.net,1433;Database=<database-name>;Encrypt=yes;TrustServerCertificate=no;Connection Timeout=30
    ```

    Fill in the `<dabaser-server-name>` and `<database-name>` with your values.

    The passwordless connection string doesn't contain a user name or password. Instead, when the app runs in Azure, the code uses `DefaultAzureCredential` from the [Azure Identity library](/python/api/overview/azure/Identity-readme) to get a token to use with `pyodbc`.

## Test the deployed application

Browse to the URL of the app to test that the connection to Azure SQL Database is working. You can locate the URL of your app on the App Service overview page.

```http
https://<web-app-name>.azurewebsites.net
```

Append */docs* to the URL to see the Swagger UI and test the API methods.  

Congratulations! Your application is now connected to Azure SQL Database in both local and hosted environments.

## Related content

- [Migrate a Python application to use passwordless connections with Azure SQL Database](./azure-sql-passwordless-migration-python.md) - Shows user-assigned managed identity.
- [Passwordless connections for Azure services](/azure/developer/intro/passwordless-overview)
- [Managed identity best practice recommendations](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/managed-identity-best-practice-recommendations)

Commit message:

Add a sentence indicating that passwordless auth is the recommended option.

azure-sql/database/azure-sql-python-quickstart.md, after:

---
title: Connect to and query Azure SQL Database using Python and the pyodbc library
description: Learn how to connect to a database in Azure SQL Database and query data using Python and the pyodbc library.
author: bobtabor-msft
ms.author: rotabor
ms.reviewer: mathoma
ms.custom: passwordless-python
ms.date: 03/21/2024
ms.service: azure-sql-database
ms.subservice: security
ms.topic: quickstart
monikerRange: "= azuresql || = azuresql-db"
content_well_notification: 
  - AI-contribution
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# Connect to and query Azure SQL Database using Python and the pyodbc driver
[!INCLUDE[appliesto-sqldb](../includes/appliesto-sqldb.md)]

This quickstart describes how to connect an application to a database in Azure SQL Database and perform queries using Python and the [Python SQL Driver - pyodbc](/sql/connect/python/pyodbc/python-sql-driver-pyodbc). This quickstart follows the recommended passwordless approach to connect to the database. You can learn more about passwordless connections on the [passwordless hub](/azure/developer/intro/passwordless-overview).

## Prerequisites

* An [Azure subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/python/).
* An Azure SQL database configured with Microsoft Entra authentication. You can create one using the [Create database quickstart](./single-database-create-quickstart.md).
* The latest version of the [Azure CLI](/cli/azure/get-started-with-azure-cli).
* Visual Studio Code with the [Python extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python).
* Python 3.8 or later. If you're using a Linux client machine, see [Install the ODBC driver](/sql/connect/python/pyodbc/step-1-configure-development-environment-for-pyodbc-python-development?tabs=linux#install-the-odbc-driver).

## Configure the database

[!INCLUDE [passwordless-configure-server-networking](../includes/passwordless-configure-server-networking.md)]

## Create the project

Create a new Python project using Visual Studio Code.

1. Open Visual Studio Code and create a new folder for your project and change directory into it.

    ```Cmd
    mkdir python-sql-azure
    cd python-sql-azure
    ```

1. Create a virtual environment for the app.

    #### [Windows](#tab/windows)

    ```Cmd
    py -m venv .venv
    .venv\scripts\activate
    ```

    #### [macOS/Linux](#tab/mac-linux)

    ```Bash
    python3 -m venv .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
    ```

    ---

1. Create a new Python file called `app.py`.

## Install the pyodbc driver

To connect to Azure SQL Database using Python, install the `pyodbc` driver. This package acts as a data provider for connecting to databases, executing commands, and retrieving results. In this quickstart, you also install `flask`, `uvicorn`, and `pydantic` packages to create and run an API.

For details and specific instructions for installing the `pyodbc` driver on all operating systems, see [Configure development environment for pyodbc Python development](/sql/connect/python/pyodbc/step-1-configure-development-environment-for-pyodbc-python-development).

1. Create a *requirements.txt* file with the following lines:

    ```
    pyodbc
    fastapi
    uvicorn[standard]
    pydantic
    azure-identity
    ```

2. Install the requirements.

    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Configure the local connection string

For local development and connecting to Azure SQL Database, add the following `AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING` environment variable. Replace the `<database-server-name>` and `<database-name>` placeholders with your own values. Example environment variables are shown for the Bash shell.

Interactive authentication provides a passwordless option when you're running locally. This option is recommended because you don't have to store or manage authentication secrets on your local system.

## [Interactive Authentication](#tab/sql-inter)

In Windows, Microsoft Entra Interactive Authentication can use Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication technology to set up connection. In this mode, by providing the sign in ID, an Azure Authentication dialog is triggered and allows the user to input the password to complete the connection.

```Bash
export AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING='Driver={ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server};Server=tcp:<database-server-name>.database.windows.net,1433;Database=<database-name>;Encrypt=yes;TrustServerCertificate=no;Connection Timeout=30'
```

For more information, see [Using Microsoft Entra ID with the ODBC Driver](/sql/connect/odbc/using-azure-active-directory). If you use this option, look for the window that prompts you for credentials.

## [SQL Authentication](#tab/sql-auth)

You can directly authenticate to a SQL Server instance using a username and password.

```Bash
export AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING='Driver={ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server};Server=tcp:<database-server-name>.database.windows.net,1433;Database=<database-name>;UID=<user-name>;PWD=<user-password>;Encrypt=yes;TrustServerCertificate=no;Connection Timeout=30'
```

> [!WARNING]
> Use caution when managing connection strings that contain secrets such as usernames, passwords, or access keys. These secrets shouldn't be committed to source control or placed in unsecure locations where they might be accessed by unintended users. During local development, on a real app, you'll generally connect to a local database that doesn't require storing secrets or connecting directly to Azure.

---

You can get the details to create your connection string from the Azure portal:

1. Go to the Azure SQL Server, select the **SQL databases** page to find your database name, and select the database.

2. On the database, go to the **Connection strings** page to get connection string information. Look under the **ODBC** tab.

> [!NOTE]
> If you've installed [Azure Arc](/azure/azure-arc/overview) and associated it with your Azure subscription, you can also use the managed identity approach shown for the app deployed to App Service.

## Add code to connect to Azure SQL Database

In the project folder, create an *app.py* file and add the sample code. This code creates an API that:

* Retrieves an Azure SQL Database connection string from an environment variable.
* Creates a `Persons` table in the database during startup (for testing scenarios only).
* Defines a function to retrieve all `Person` records from the database.
* Defines a function to retrieve one `Person` record from the database.
* Defines a function to add new `Person` records to the database.

```python
import os
import pyodbc, struct
from azure import identity

from typing import Union
from fastapi import FastAPI
from pydantic import BaseModel

class Person(BaseModel):
    first_name: str
    last_name: Union[str, None] = None
    
connection_string = os.environ["AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING"]

app = FastAPI()

@app.get("/")
def root():
    print("Root of Person API")
    try:
        conn = get_conn()
        cursor = conn.cursor()

        # Table should be created ahead of time in production app.
        cursor.execute("""
            CREATE TABLE Persons (
                ID int NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY IDENTITY,
                FirstName varchar(255),
                LastName varchar(255)
            );
        """)

        conn.commit()
    except Exception as e:
        # Table may already exist
        print(e)
    return "Person API"

@app.get("/all")
def get_persons():
    rows = []
    with get_conn() as conn:
        cursor = conn.cursor()
        cursor.execute("SELECT * FROM Persons")

        for row in cursor.fetchall():
            print(row.FirstName, row.LastName)
            rows.append(f"{row.ID}, {row.FirstName}, {row.LastName}")
    return rows

@app.get("/person/{person_id}")
def get_person(person_id: int):
    with get_conn() as conn:
        cursor = conn.cursor()
        cursor.execute("SELECT * FROM Persons WHERE ID = ?", person_id)

        row = cursor.fetchone()
        return f"{row.ID}, {row.FirstName}, {row.LastName}"

@app.post("/person")
def create_person(item: Person):
    with get_conn() as conn:
        cursor = conn.cursor()
        cursor.execute(f"INSERT INTO Persons (FirstName, LastName) VALUES (?, ?)", item.first_name, item.last_name)
        conn.commit()

    return item

def get_conn():
    credential = identity.DefaultAzureCredential(exclude_interactive_browser_credential=False)
    token_bytes = credential.get_token("https://database.windows.net/.default").token.encode("UTF-16-LE")
    token_struct = struct.pack(f'<I{len(token_bytes)}s', len(token_bytes), token_bytes)
    SQL_COPT_SS_ACCESS_TOKEN = 1256  # This connection option is defined by microsoft in msodbcsql.h
    conn = pyodbc.connect(connection_string, attrs_before={SQL_COPT_SS_ACCESS_TOKEN: token_struct})
    return conn
```

> [!WARNING]
> The sample code shows raw SQL statements, which shouldn't be used in production code. Instead, use an Object Relational Mapper (ORM) package like [SqlAlchemy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/) that generates a more secure object layer to access your database.

## Run and test the app locally

The app is ready to be tested locally.

1. Run the `app.py` file in Visual Studio Code.

    ```console
    uvicorn app:app --reload
    ```

1. On the Swagger UI page for the app [http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs](http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs), expand the POST method and select **Try it out**.

    You can also use try */redoc* to see another form of generated documentation for the API.

1. Modify the sample JSON to include values for the first and last name. Select **Execute** to add a new record to the database. The API returns a successful response.

1. Expand the **GET** method on the Swagger UI page and select **Try it**. Choose **Execute**, and the person you just created is returned.

## Deploy to Azure App Service

The app is ready to be deployed to Azure.

1. Create a *start.sh* file so that gunicorn in Azure App Service can run uvicorn. The *start.sh* has one line:

    ```console
    gunicorn -w 4 -k uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker app:app
    ```

1. Use the [az webapp up](/cli/azure/webapp#az-webapp-up) to deploy the code to App Service. (You can use the option `-dryrun` to see what the command does without creating the resource.)

    ```azurecli
    az webapp up \
        --resource-group <resource-group-name> \
        --name <web-app-name>         
    ```

1. Use the [az webapp config set](/cli/azure/webapp/config#az-webapp-config-set) command to configure App Service to use the *start.sh* file.

    ```azurecli
    az webapp config set \
        --resource-group <resource-group-name> \
        --name <web-app-name> \
        --startup-file start.sh
    ```

1. Use the [az webapp identity assign](/cli/azure/webapp/identity#az-webapp-identity-assign) command to enable a system-assigned managed identity for the App Service.

    ```azurecli
    az webapp identity assign \
        --resource-group <resource-group-name> \
        --name <web-app-name>
    ```

    In this quickstart, a system-assigned managed identity is used for demonstration. A user-assigned managed identity is more efficient in a broader range of scenarios. For more information, see [Managed identity best practice recommendations](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/managed-identity-best-practice-recommendations). For an example of using a user-assigned managed identity with pyodbc, see [Migrate a Python application to use passwordless connections with Azure SQL Database](./azure-sql-passwordless-migration-python.md).

## Connect the App Service to Azure SQL Database

In the [Configure the database](#configure-the-database) section, you configured networking and Microsoft Entra authentication for the Azure SQL database server. In this section, you complete the database configuration and configure the App Service with a connection string to access the database server.

To run these commands you can use any tool or IDE that can connect to Azure SQL Database, including [SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)](/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms), [Azure Data Studio](/azure-data-studio/what-is-azure-data-studio), and Visual Studio Code with the [SQL server mssql](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-mssql.mssql) extension. As well, you can use the Azure portal as described in [Quickstart: Use the Azure portal query editor to query Azure SQL Database](/azure/azure-sql/database/connect-query-portal).

1. Add a user to the Azure SQL Database with SQL commands to create a user and role for passwordless access.

    ```sql
    CREATE USER [<web-app-name>] FROM EXTERNAL PROVIDER
    ALTER ROLE db_datareader ADD MEMBER [<web-app-name>]
    ALTER ROLE db_datawriter ADD MEMBER [<web-app-name>]
    ```

    For more information, see [Contained Database Users - Making Your Database Portable](/sql/relational-databases/security/contained-database-users-making-your-database-portable). For an example that shows the same principle but applied to Azure VM, see [Tutorial: Use a Windows VM system-assigned managed identity to access Azure SQL](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/tutorial-windows-vm-access-sql). For more information about the roles assigned, see [Fixed-database Roles](/sql/relational-databases/security/authentication-access/database-level-roles#fixed-database-roles).

    If you disable and then enable the App Service system-assigned managed identity, then drop the user and recreate it. Run `DROP USER [<web-app-name>]` and rerun the `CREATE` and `ALTER` commands. To see users, use `SELECT * FROM sys.database_principals`.

1. Use the [az webapp config appsettings set](/cli/azure/webapp/config/appsettings#az-webapp-config-appsettings-set) command to add an app setting for the connection string.

    ```azurecli
    az webapp config appsettings set \
        --resource-group <resource-group-name> \
        --name <web-app-name> \
        --settings AZURE_SQL_CONNECTIONSTRING="<connection-string>"
    ```

    For the deployed app, the connection string should resemble:

    ```
    Driver={ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server};Server=tcp:<database-server-name>.database.windows.net,1433;Database=<database-name>;Encrypt=yes;TrustServerCertificate=no;Connection Timeout=30
    ```

    Fill in the `<dabaser-server-name>` and `<database-name>` with your values.

    The passwordless connection string doesn't contain a user name or password. Instead, when the app runs in Azure, the code uses `DefaultAzureCredential` from the [Azure Identity library](/python/api/overview/azure/Identity-readme) to get a token to use with `pyodbc`.

## Test the deployed application

Browse to the URL of the app to test that the connection to Azure SQL Database is working. You can locate the URL of your app on the App Service overview page.

```http
https://<web-app-name>.azurewebsites.net
```

Append */docs* to the URL to see the Swagger UI and test the API methods.  

Congratulations! Your application is now connected to Azure SQL Database in both local and hosted environments.

## Related content

- [Migrate a Python application to use passwordless connections with Azure SQL Database](./azure-sql-passwordless-migration-python.md) - Shows user-assigned managed identity.
- [Passwordless connections for Azure services](/azure/developer/intro/passwordless-overview)
- [Managed identity best practice recommendations](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/managed-identity-best-practice-recommendations)
