azure-sql/database/connect-query-java.md, before:

---
title: Use Java and JDBC with Azure SQL Database
description: Learn how to use Java and JDBC with an Azure SQL Database.
author: jdubois
ms.author: judubois
ms.reviewer: mathoma
ms.date: 12/07/2023
ms.service: sql-database
ms.subservice: development
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.custom:
  - devx-track-java
  - devx-track-azurecli
  - mode-api
ms.devlang: java
monikerRange: "= azuresql || = azuresql-db"
---

# Use Java and JDBC with Azure SQL Database

This topic demonstrates creating a sample application that uses Java and [JDBC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Database_Connectivity) to store and retrieve information in [Azure SQL Database](/azure/sql-database/).

JDBC is the standard Java API to connect to traditional relational databases.

## Prerequisites

- An Azure account. If you don't have one, [get a free trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
- [Azure Cloud Shell](/azure/cloud-shell/quickstart) or [Azure CLI](/cli/azure/install-azure-cli). We recommend Azure Cloud Shell so you'll be logged in automatically and have access to all the tools you'll need.
- A supported [Java Development Kit](/azure/developer/java/fundamentals/java-support-on-azure), version 8 (included in Azure Cloud Shell).
- The [Apache Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) build tool.

## Prepare the working environment

We are going to use environment variables to limit typing mistakes, and to make it easier for you to customize the following configuration for your specific needs.

Set up those environment variables by using the following commands:

```bash
AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP=database-workshop
AZ_DATABASE_NAME=<YOUR_DATABASE_NAME>
AZ_LOCATION=<YOUR_AZURE_REGION>
AZ_SQL_SERVER_USERNAME=demo
AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD=<YOUR_AZURE_SQL_PASSWORD>
AZ_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS=<YOUR_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS>
```

Replace the placeholders with the following values, which are used throughout this article:

- `<YOUR_DATABASE_NAME>`: The name of your Azure SQL Database server. It should be unique across Azure.
- `<YOUR_AZURE_REGION>`: The Azure region you'll use. You can use `eastus` by default, but we recommend that you configure a region closer to where you live. You can have the full list of available regions by entering `az account list-locations`.
- `<AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD>`: The password of your Azure SQL Database server. That password should have a minimum of eight characters. The characters should be from three of the following categories: English uppercase letters, English lowercase letters, numbers (0-9), and non-alphanumeric characters (!, $, #, %, and so on).
- `<YOUR_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS>`: The IP address of your local computer, from which you'll run your Java application. One convenient way to find it is to point your browser to [whatismyip.akamai.com](http://whatismyip.akamai.com/).

Next, create a resource group using the following command:

```azurecli
az group create \
    --name $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --location $AZ_LOCATION \
    | jq
```

> [!NOTE]
> We use the `jq` utility to display JSON data and make it more readable. This utility is installed by default on [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/). If you don't like that utility, you can safely remove the `| jq` part of all the commands we'll use.

## Create an Azure SQL Database instance

The first thing we'll create is a managed Azure SQL Database server.

> [!NOTE]
> You can read more detailed information about creating Azure SQL Database servers in [Quickstart: Create an Azure SQL Database single database](./single-database-create-quickstart.md).

In [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/), run the following command:

```azurecli
az sql server create \
    --resource-group $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --name $AZ_DATABASE_NAME \
    --location $AZ_LOCATION \
    --admin-user $AZ_SQL_SERVER_USERNAME \
    --admin-password $AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD \
    | jq
```

This command creates an Azure SQL Database server.

### Configure a firewall rule for your Azure SQL Database server

Azure SQL Database instances are secured by default. They have a firewall that doesn't allow any incoming connection. To be able to use your database, you need to add a firewall rule that will allow the local IP address to access the database server.

Because you configured our local IP address at the beginning of this article, you can open the server's firewall by running the following command:

```azurecli
az sql server firewall-rule create \
    --resource-group $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --name $AZ_DATABASE_NAME-database-allow-local-ip \
    --server $AZ_DATABASE_NAME \
    --start-ip-address $AZ_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS \
    --end-ip-address $AZ_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS \
    | jq
```

### Configure an Azure SQL database

The Azure SQL Database server that you created earlier is empty. It doesn't have any database that you can use with the Java application. Create a new database called `demo` by running the following command:

```azurecli
az sql db create \
    --resource-group $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --name demo \
    --server $AZ_DATABASE_NAME \
    | jq
```

### Create a new Java project

Using your favorite IDE, create a new Java project, and add a `pom.xml` file in its root directory:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 https://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
    <groupId>com.example</groupId>
    <artifactId>demo</artifactId>
    <version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
    <name>demo</name>

    <properties>
        <java.version>17</java.version>
    </properties>

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.sqlserver</groupId>
            <artifactId>mssql-jdbc</artifactId>
            <version>12.4.2.jre11</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</project>
```

This file is an [Apache Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) that configures our project to use:

- Java 17
- A recent SQL Server driver for Java

### Prepare a configuration file to connect to Azure SQL database

Create a *src/main/resources/application.properties* file, and add:

```properties
url=jdbc:sqlserver://$AZ_DATABASE_NAME.database.windows.net:1433;database=demo;encrypt=true;trustServerCertificate=false;hostNameInCertificate=*.database.windows.net;loginTimeout=30;
user=demo@$AZ_DATABASE_NAME
password=$AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD
```

- Replace the two `$AZ_DATABASE_NAME` variables with the value that you configured at the beginning of this article.
- Replace the `$AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD` variable with the value that you configured at the beginning of this article.

### Create an SQL file to generate the database schema

We will use a *src/main/resources/`schema.sql`* file in order to create a database schema. Create that file, with the following content:

```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS todo;
CREATE TABLE todo (id INT PRIMARY KEY, description VARCHAR(255), details VARCHAR(4096), done BIT);
```

## Code the application

### Connect to the database

Next, add the Java code that will use JDBC to store and retrieve data from your Azure SQL database.

Create a *src/main/java/com/example/demo/DemoApplication.java* file, that contains:

```java
package com.example.demo;

import java.sql.*;
import java.util.*;
import java.util.logging.Logger;

public class DemoApplication {

    private static final Logger log;

    static {
        System.setProperty("java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter.format", "[%4$-7s] %5$s %n");
        log =Logger.getLogger(DemoApplication.class.getName());
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
        log.info("Loading application properties");
        Properties properties = new Properties();
        properties.load(DemoApplication.class.getClassLoader().getResourceAsStream("application.properties"));

        log.info("Connecting to the database");
        Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(properties.getProperty("url"), properties);
        log.info("Database connection test: " + connection.getCatalog());

        log.info("Create database schema");
        Scanner scanner = new Scanner(DemoApplication.class.getClassLoader().getResourceAsStream("schema.sql"));
        Statement statement = connection.createStatement();
        while (scanner.hasNextLine()) {
            statement.execute(scanner.nextLine());
        }

        /*
        Todo todo = new Todo(1L, "configuration", "congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!", true);
        insertData(todo, connection);
        todo = readData(connection);
        todo.setDetails("congratulations, you have updated data!");
        updateData(todo, connection);
        deleteData(todo, connection);
        */

        log.info("Closing database connection");
        connection.close();
    }
}
```

This Java code will use the *application.properties* and the *schema.sql* files that we created earlier, in order to connect to the SQL Server database and create a schema that will store our data.

In this file, you can see that we commented methods to insert, read, update and delete data: we will code those methods in the rest of this article, and you will be able to uncomment them one after each other.

> [!NOTE]
> The database credentials are stored in the *user* and *password* properties of the *application.properties* file. Those credentials are used when executing `DriverManager.getConnection(properties.getProperty("url"), properties);`, as the properties file is passed as an argument.

You can now execute this main class with your favorite tool:

- Using your IDE, you should be able to right-click on the *DemoApplication* class and execute it.
- Using Maven, you can run the application by executing: `mvn package exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="com.example.demo.DemoApplication"`.

The application should connect to the Azure SQL Database, create a database schema, and then close the connection, as you should see in the console logs:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection 
```

### Create a domain class

Create a new `Todo` Java class, next to the `DemoApplication` class, and add the following code:

```java
package com.example.demo;

public class Todo {

    private Long id;
    private String description;
    private String details;
    private boolean done;

    public Todo() {
    }

    public Todo(Long id, String description, String details, boolean done) {
        this.id = id;
        this.description = description;
        this.details = details;
        this.done = done;
    }

    public Long getId() {
        return id;
    }

    public void setId(Long id) {
        this.id = id;
    }

    public String getDescription() {
        return description;
    }

    public void setDescription(String description) {
        this.description = description;
    }

    public String getDetails() {
        return details;
    }

    public void setDetails(String details) {
        this.details = details;
    }

    public boolean isDone() {
        return done;
    }

    public void setDone(boolean done) {
        this.done = done;
    }

    @Override
    public String toString() {
        return "Todo{" +
                "id=" + id +
                ", description='" + description + '\'' +
                ", details='" + details + '\'' +
                ", done=" + done +
                '}';
    }
}
```

This class is a domain model mapped on the `todo` table that you created when executing the *schema.sql* script.

### Insert data into Azure SQL database

In the *src/main/java/DemoApplication.java* file, after the main method, add the following method to insert data into the database:

```java
private static void insertData(Todo todo, Connection connection) throws SQLException {
    log.info("Insert data");
    PreparedStatement insertStatement = connection
            .prepareStatement("INSERT INTO todo (id, description, details, done) VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?);");

    insertStatement.setLong(1, todo.getId());
    insertStatement.setString(2, todo.getDescription());
    insertStatement.setString(3, todo.getDetails());
    insertStatement.setBoolean(4, todo.isDone());
    insertStatement.executeUpdate();
}
```

You can now uncomment the two following lines in the `main` method:

```java
Todo todo = new Todo(1L, "configuration", "congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!", true);
insertData(todo, connection);
```

Executing the main class should now produce the following output:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Insert data 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection
```

### Reading data from Azure SQL database

Let's read the data previously inserted, to validate that our code works correctly.

In the *src/main/java/DemoApplication.java* file, after the `insertData` method, add the following method to read data from the database:

```java
private static Todo readData(Connection connection) throws SQLException {
    log.info("Read data");
    PreparedStatement readStatement = connection.prepareStatement("SELECT * FROM todo;");
    ResultSet resultSet = readStatement.executeQuery();
    if (!resultSet.next()) {
        log.info("There is no data in the database!");
        return null;
    }
    Todo todo = new Todo();
    todo.setId(resultSet.getLong("id"));
    todo.setDescription(resultSet.getString("description"));
    todo.setDetails(resultSet.getString("details"));
    todo.setDone(resultSet.getBoolean("done"));
    log.info("Data read from the database: " + todo.toString());
    return todo;
}
```

You can now uncomment the following line in the `main` method:

```java
todo = readData(connection);
```

Executing the main class should now produce the following output:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Insert data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection 
```

### Updating data in Azure SQL Database

Let's update the data we previously inserted.

Still in the *src/main/java/DemoApplication.java* file, after the `readData` method, add the following method to update data inside the database:

```java
private static void updateData(Todo todo, Connection connection) throws SQLException {
    log.info("Update data");
    PreparedStatement updateStatement = connection
            .prepareStatement("UPDATE todo SET description = ?, details = ?, done = ? WHERE id = ?;");

    updateStatement.setString(1, todo.getDescription());
    updateStatement.setString(2, todo.getDetails());
    updateStatement.setBoolean(3, todo.isDone());
    updateStatement.setLong(4, todo.getId());
    updateStatement.executeUpdate();
    readData(connection);
}
```

You can now uncomment the two following lines in the `main` method:

```java
todo.setDetails("congratulations, you have updated data!");
updateData(todo, connection);
```

Executing the main class should now produce the following output:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Insert data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Update data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have updated data!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection 
```

### Deleting data in Azure SQL database

Finally, let's delete the data we previously inserted.

Still in the *src/main/java/DemoApplication.java* file, after the `updateData` method, add the following method to delete data inside the database:

```java
private static void deleteData(Todo todo, Connection connection) throws SQLException {
    log.info("Delete data");
    PreparedStatement deleteStatement = connection.prepareStatement("DELETE FROM todo WHERE id = ?;");
    deleteStatement.setLong(1, todo.getId());
    deleteStatement.executeUpdate();
    readData(connection);
}
```

You can now uncomment the following line in the `main` method:

```java
deleteData(todo, connection);
```

Executing the main class should now produce the following output:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Insert data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Update data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have updated data!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Delete data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] There is no data in the database! 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection 
```

## Conclusion and resources clean up

Congratulations! You've created a Java application that uses JDBC to store and retrieve data from Azure SQL database.

To clean up all resources used during this quickstart, delete the resource group using the following command:

```azurecli
az group delete \
    --name $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --yes
```

## Next steps

- [Design your first database in Azure SQL Database](design-first-database-tutorial.md)  
- [Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL Server](https://github.com/microsoft/mssql-jdbc)  
- [Report issues/ask questions](https://github.com/microsoft/mssql-jdbc/issues)

Commit message:

fixing random things
updating metadata

fixing metadata

fixing faq

added serverless bullet point

fixing things

fixing more things

fixing more random stuff

fixing more things

azure-sql/database/connect-query-java.md, after:

---
title: Use Java and JDBC with Azure SQL Database
description: Learn how to use Java and JDBC with an Azure SQL Database.
author: jdubois
ms.author: judubois
ms.reviewer: mathoma
ms.date: 12/07/2023
ms.service: sql-database
ms.subservice: development
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.custom:
  - devx-track-java
  - devx-track-azurecli
  - mode-api
ms.devlang: java
monikerRange: "= azuresql || = azuresql-db"
---

# Use Java and JDBC with Azure SQL Database
[!INCLUDE [appliesto-sqldb](../includes/appliesto-sqldb.md)]

This topic demonstrates creating a sample application that uses Java and [JDBC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Database_Connectivity) to store and retrieve information in [Azure SQL Database](/azure/sql-database/).

JDBC is the standard Java API to connect to traditional relational databases.

## Prerequisites

- An Azure account. If you don't have one, [get a free trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
- [Azure Cloud Shell](/azure/cloud-shell/quickstart) or [Azure CLI](/cli/azure/install-azure-cli). We recommend Azure Cloud Shell so you'll be logged in automatically and have access to all the tools you'll need.
- A supported [Java Development Kit](/azure/developer/java/fundamentals/java-support-on-azure), version 8 (included in Azure Cloud Shell).
- The [Apache Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) build tool.

## Prepare the working environment

We are going to use environment variables to limit typing mistakes, and to make it easier for you to customize the following configuration for your specific needs.

Set up those environment variables by using the following commands:

```bash
AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP=database-workshop
AZ_DATABASE_NAME=<YOUR_DATABASE_NAME>
AZ_LOCATION=<YOUR_AZURE_REGION>
AZ_SQL_SERVER_USERNAME=demo
AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD=<YOUR_AZURE_SQL_PASSWORD>
AZ_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS=<YOUR_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS>
```

Replace the placeholders with the following values, which are used throughout this article:

- `<YOUR_DATABASE_NAME>`: The name of your Azure SQL Database server. It should be unique across Azure.
- `<YOUR_AZURE_REGION>`: The Azure region you'll use. You can use `eastus` by default, but we recommend that you configure a region closer to where you live. You can have the full list of available regions by entering `az account list-locations`.
- `<AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD>`: The password of your Azure SQL Database server. That password should have a minimum of eight characters. The characters should be from three of the following categories: English uppercase letters, English lowercase letters, numbers (0-9), and non-alphanumeric characters (!, $, #, %, and so on).
- `<YOUR_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS>`: The IP address of your local computer, from which you'll run your Java application. One convenient way to find it is to point your browser to [whatismyip.akamai.com](http://whatismyip.akamai.com/).

Next, create a resource group using the following command:

```azurecli
az group create \
    --name $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --location $AZ_LOCATION \
    | jq
```

> [!NOTE]
> We use the `jq` utility to display JSON data and make it more readable. This utility is installed by default on [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/). If you don't like that utility, you can safely remove the `| jq` part of all the commands we'll use.

## Create a database

The first thing we'll create is a managed [logical server](logical-servers.md) for Azure SQL Database.

In [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/), run the following command:

```azurecli
az sql server create \
    --resource-group $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --name $AZ_DATABASE_NAME \
    --location $AZ_LOCATION \
    --admin-user $AZ_SQL_SERVER_USERNAME \
    --admin-password $AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD \
    | jq
```

This command creates the logical server for your database. 

### Configure a firewall rule for your server

Azure SQL Database is secured by default since it has a firewall that doesn't allow any incoming connection. To be able to use your database, you need to add a firewall rule that will allow the local IP address to access the database server.

Because you configured our local IP address at the beginning of this article, you can open the server's firewall by running the following command:

```azurecli
az sql server firewall-rule create \
    --resource-group $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --name $AZ_DATABASE_NAME-database-allow-local-ip \
    --server $AZ_DATABASE_NAME \
    --start-ip-address $AZ_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS \
    --end-ip-address $AZ_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS \
    | jq
```

### Configure a database

The server that you created earlier is empty. It doesn't have any database that you can use with the Java application. Create a new database called `demo` by running the following command:

```azurecli
az sql db create \
    --resource-group $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --name demo \
    --server $AZ_DATABASE_NAME \
    | jq
```

## Create a new Java project

Using your favorite IDE, create a new Java project, and add a `pom.xml` file in its root directory:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 https://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
    <groupId>com.example</groupId>
    <artifactId>demo</artifactId>
    <version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
    <name>demo</name>

    <properties>
        <java.version>17</java.version>
    </properties>

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.sqlserver</groupId>
            <artifactId>mssql-jdbc</artifactId>
            <version>12.4.2.jre11</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</project>
```

This file is an [Apache Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) that configures our project to use:

- Java 17
- A recent SQL Server driver for Java

### Prepare a configuration file to connect to Azure SQL database

Create a *src/main/resources/application.properties* file, and add:

```properties
url=jdbc:sqlserver://$AZ_DATABASE_NAME.database.windows.net:1433;database=demo;encrypt=true;trustServerCertificate=false;hostNameInCertificate=*.database.windows.net;loginTimeout=30;
user=demo@$AZ_DATABASE_NAME
password=$AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD
```

- Replace the two `$AZ_DATABASE_NAME` variables with the value that you configured at the beginning of this article.
- Replace the `$AZ_SQL_SERVER_PASSWORD` variable with the value that you configured at the beginning of this article.

### Create an SQL file to generate the database schema

We will use a *src/main/resources/`schema.sql`* file in order to create a database schema. Create that file, with the following content:

```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS todo;
CREATE TABLE todo (id INT PRIMARY KEY, description VARCHAR(255), details VARCHAR(4096), done BIT);
```

## Code the application

### Connect to the database

Next, add the Java code that will use JDBC to store and retrieve data from your Azure SQL database.

Create a *src/main/java/com/example/demo/DemoApplication.java* file, that contains:

```java
package com.example.demo;

import java.sql.*;
import java.util.*;
import java.util.logging.Logger;

public class DemoApplication {

    private static final Logger log;

    static {
        System.setProperty("java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter.format", "[%4$-7s] %5$s %n");
        log =Logger.getLogger(DemoApplication.class.getName());
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
        log.info("Loading application properties");
        Properties properties = new Properties();
        properties.load(DemoApplication.class.getClassLoader().getResourceAsStream("application.properties"));

        log.info("Connecting to the database");
        Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(properties.getProperty("url"), properties);
        log.info("Database connection test: " + connection.getCatalog());

        log.info("Create database schema");
        Scanner scanner = new Scanner(DemoApplication.class.getClassLoader().getResourceAsStream("schema.sql"));
        Statement statement = connection.createStatement();
        while (scanner.hasNextLine()) {
            statement.execute(scanner.nextLine());
        }

        /*
        Todo todo = new Todo(1L, "configuration", "congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!", true);
        insertData(todo, connection);
        todo = readData(connection);
        todo.setDetails("congratulations, you have updated data!");
        updateData(todo, connection);
        deleteData(todo, connection);
        */

        log.info("Closing database connection");
        connection.close();
    }
}
```

This Java code will use the *application.properties* and the *schema.sql* files that we created earlier, in order to connect to the SQL Server database and create a schema that will store our data.

In this file, you can see that we commented methods to insert, read, update and delete data: we will code those methods in the rest of this article, and you will be able to uncomment them one after each other.

> [!NOTE]
> The database credentials are stored in the *user* and *password* properties of the *application.properties* file. Those credentials are used when executing `DriverManager.getConnection(properties.getProperty("url"), properties);`, as the properties file is passed as an argument.

You can now execute this main class with your favorite tool:

- Using your IDE, you should be able to right-click on the *DemoApplication* class and execute it.
- Using Maven, you can run the application by executing: `mvn package exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="com.example.demo.DemoApplication"`.

The application should connect to the Azure SQL Database, create a database schema, and then close the connection, as you should see in the console logs:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection 
```

### Create a domain class

Create a new `Todo` Java class, next to the `DemoApplication` class, and add the following code:

```java
package com.example.demo;

public class Todo {

    private Long id;
    private String description;
    private String details;
    private boolean done;

    public Todo() {
    }

    public Todo(Long id, String description, String details, boolean done) {
        this.id = id;
        this.description = description;
        this.details = details;
        this.done = done;
    }

    public Long getId() {
        return id;
    }

    public void setId(Long id) {
        this.id = id;
    }

    public String getDescription() {
        return description;
    }

    public void setDescription(String description) {
        this.description = description;
    }

    public String getDetails() {
        return details;
    }

    public void setDetails(String details) {
        this.details = details;
    }

    public boolean isDone() {
        return done;
    }

    public void setDone(boolean done) {
        this.done = done;
    }

    @Override
    public String toString() {
        return "Todo{" +
                "id=" + id +
                ", description='" + description + '\'' +
                ", details='" + details + '\'' +
                ", done=" + done +
                '}';
    }
}
```

This class is a domain model mapped on the `todo` table that you created when executing the *schema.sql* script.

## Insert data 

In the *src/main/java/DemoApplication.java* file, after the main method, add the following method to insert data into the database:

```java
private static void insertData(Todo todo, Connection connection) throws SQLException {
    log.info("Insert data");
    PreparedStatement insertStatement = connection
            .prepareStatement("INSERT INTO todo (id, description, details, done) VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?);");

    insertStatement.setLong(1, todo.getId());
    insertStatement.setString(2, todo.getDescription());
    insertStatement.setString(3, todo.getDetails());
    insertStatement.setBoolean(4, todo.isDone());
    insertStatement.executeUpdate();
}
```

You can now uncomment the two following lines in the `main` method:

```java
Todo todo = new Todo(1L, "configuration", "congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!", true);
insertData(todo, connection);
```

Executing the main class should now produce the following output:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Insert data 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection
```

## Read data

Let's read the data previously inserted, to validate that our code works correctly.

In the *src/main/java/DemoApplication.java* file, after the `insertData` method, add the following method to read data from the database:

```java
private static Todo readData(Connection connection) throws SQLException {
    log.info("Read data");
    PreparedStatement readStatement = connection.prepareStatement("SELECT * FROM todo;");
    ResultSet resultSet = readStatement.executeQuery();
    if (!resultSet.next()) {
        log.info("There is no data in the database!");
        return null;
    }
    Todo todo = new Todo();
    todo.setId(resultSet.getLong("id"));
    todo.setDescription(resultSet.getString("description"));
    todo.setDetails(resultSet.getString("details"));
    todo.setDone(resultSet.getBoolean("done"));
    log.info("Data read from the database: " + todo.toString());
    return todo;
}
```

You can now uncomment the following line in the `main` method:

```java
todo = readData(connection);
```

Executing the main class should now produce the following output:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Insert data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection 
```

## Update data

Let's update the data we previously inserted.

Still in the *src/main/java/DemoApplication.java* file, after the `readData` method, add the following method to update data inside the database:

```java
private static void updateData(Todo todo, Connection connection) throws SQLException {
    log.info("Update data");
    PreparedStatement updateStatement = connection
            .prepareStatement("UPDATE todo SET description = ?, details = ?, done = ? WHERE id = ?;");

    updateStatement.setString(1, todo.getDescription());
    updateStatement.setString(2, todo.getDetails());
    updateStatement.setBoolean(3, todo.isDone());
    updateStatement.setLong(4, todo.getId());
    updateStatement.executeUpdate();
    readData(connection);
}
```

You can now uncomment the two following lines in the `main` method:

```java
todo.setDetails("congratulations, you have updated data!");
updateData(todo, connection);
```

Executing the main class should now produce the following output:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Insert data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Update data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have updated data!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection 
```

## Delete data

Finally, let's delete the data we previously inserted.

Still in the *src/main/java/DemoApplication.java* file, after the `updateData` method, add the following method to delete data inside the database:

```java
private static void deleteData(Todo todo, Connection connection) throws SQLException {
    log.info("Delete data");
    PreparedStatement deleteStatement = connection.prepareStatement("DELETE FROM todo WHERE id = ?;");
    deleteStatement.setLong(1, todo.getId());
    deleteStatement.executeUpdate();
    readData(connection);
}
```

You can now uncomment the following line in the `main` method:

```java
deleteData(todo, connection);
```

Executing the main class should now produce the following output:

```
[INFO   ] Loading application properties 
[INFO   ] Connecting to the database 
[INFO   ] Database connection test: demo 
[INFO   ] Create database schema 
[INFO   ] Insert data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have set up JDBC correctly!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Update data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] Data read from the database: Todo{id=1, description='configuration', details='congratulations, you have updated data!', done=true} 
[INFO   ] Delete data 
[INFO   ] Read data 
[INFO   ] There is no data in the database! 
[INFO   ] Closing database connection 
```

## Conclusion and resources clean up

Congratulations! You've created a Java application that uses JDBC to store and retrieve data from Azure SQL database.

To clean up all resources used during this quickstart, delete the resource group using the following command:

```azurecli
az group delete \
    --name $AZ_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --yes
```

## Next steps

- [Design your first database in Azure SQL Database](design-first-database-tutorial.md)  
- [Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL Server](https://github.com/microsoft/mssql-jdbc)  
- [Report issues/ask questions](https://github.com/microsoft/mssql-jdbc/issues)
