azure-sql/database/local-dev-experience-create-database-project.md, before:

---
title: Create a project for a local development environment
description: Learn how to create a database project as part of the local development experience for Azure SQL Database.
author: croblesm
ms.author: roblescarlos
ms.reviewer: mathoma
ms.date: 08/14/2024
ms.service: azure-sql-database
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: template-how-to, build-2023, build-2023-dataai
---

# Create a project for a local Azure SQL Database development environment
[!INCLUDE[appliesto-sqldb](../includes/appliesto-sqldb.md)]

The Azure SQL Database [local development experience](local-dev-experience-overview.md) empowers application developers and database professionals to design, edit, build/validate, publish, and run database schemas for databases directly on their workstation using an Azure SQL Database containerized environment. As part of this workflow, you'll create a SQL Database Project. The SQL Database Project extension allows you to create a new blank project, create a new project from a database, and open previously created projects.

## Prerequisites

Before creating or opening a SQL Database project, follow the steps in [Set up a local development environment for Azure SQL Database](local-dev-experience-set-up-dev-environment.md) to configure your environment.

## Create a new project

In the **Database Projects** view, select the **New Project** button and enter a project name in the text input that appears. In the **Select a Folder** dialog that appears, choose a directory for the project's folder, `.sqlproj` file, and other contents to reside in.

The empty project is opened and visible in the **Database Projects** view for editing.

## Create a project from Azure SQL Database

In the **Project** view, select the **Import Project from Database** button and connect to a database in Azure SQL Database. Once connected, select a database from the list of available databases and set the name of the project.

Finally, select a target structure of the extraction. The new project opens and contains SQL scripts for the contents of the selected database.

## Open an existing project

In the **Database Projects** view, select **Open Project** and open an existing `.sqlproj` file from the file picker that appears. Existing projects can originate from Azure Data Studio, Visual Studio Code, or [Visual Studio SQL Server Data Tools](/sql/ssdt/sql-server-data-tools).

The existing project opens and its contents are visible in the **Database Projects** view for editing.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Build and Publish a project](/azure-data-studio/extensions/sql-database-project-extension-build)

## Related content

Learn more about the local development experience for Azure SQL Database:

- [What is the local development experience for Azure SQL Database?](local-dev-experience-overview.md)
- [Azure SQL Database dev container template](local-dev-experience-dev-containers.md)
- [Quickstart: Set up a development environment with Dev Container Templates for Azure SQL Database](local-dev-experience-dev-containers-quickstart.md)

Commit message:

20240904 update link in local-dev-experience-create-database-project.md

azure-sql/database/local-dev-experience-create-database-project.md, after:

---
title: Create a project for a local development environment
description: Learn how to create a database project as part of the local development experience for Azure SQL Database.
author: croblesm
ms.author: roblescarlos
ms.reviewer: mathoma, wiassaf
ms.date: 09/04/2024
ms.service: azure-sql-database
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: template-how-to, build-2023, build-2023-dataai
---

# Create a project for a local Azure SQL Database development environment
[!INCLUDE[appliesto-sqldb](../includes/appliesto-sqldb.md)]

The Azure SQL Database [local development experience](local-dev-experience-overview.md) empowers application developers and database professionals to design, edit, build/validate, publish, and run database schemas for databases directly on their workstation using an Azure SQL Database containerized environment. As part of this workflow, you'll create a SQL Database Project. The SQL Database Project extension allows you to create a new blank project, create a new project from a database, and open previously created projects.

## Prerequisites

Before creating or opening a SQL Database project, follow the steps in [Quickstart: Set up a development environment with Dev Container Templates for Azure SQL Database](local-dev-experience-dev-containers-quickstart.md) to configure your environment.

## Create a new project

In the **Database Projects** view, select the **New Project** button and enter a project name in the text input that appears. In the **Select a Folder** dialog that appears, choose a directory for the project's folder, `.sqlproj` file, and other contents to reside in.

The empty project is opened and visible in the **Database Projects** view for editing.

## Create a project from Azure SQL Database

In the **Project** view, select the **Import Project from Database** button and connect to a database in Azure SQL Database. Once connected, select a database from the list of available databases and set the name of the project.

Finally, select a target structure of the extraction. The new project opens and contains SQL scripts for the contents of the selected database.

## Open an existing project

In the **Database Projects** view, select **Open Project** and open an existing `.sqlproj` file from the file picker that appears. Existing projects can originate from Azure Data Studio, Visual Studio Code, or [Visual Studio SQL Server Data Tools](/sql/ssdt/sql-server-data-tools).

The existing project opens and its contents are visible in the **Database Projects** view for editing.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Build and Publish a project](/azure-data-studio/extensions/sql-database-project-extension-build)

## Related content

Learn more about the local development experience for Azure SQL Database:

- [What is the local development experience for Azure SQL Database?](local-dev-experience-overview.md)
- [Azure SQL Database dev container template](local-dev-experience-dev-containers.md)
- [Quickstart: Set up a development environment with Dev Container Templates for Azure SQL Database](local-dev-experience-dev-containers-quickstart.md)
