azure-sql/database/powershell-script-content-guide.md, before:

---
title: Azure PowerShell script examples
titleSuffix: Azure SQL Database & Azure SQL Managed Instance
description: Use Azure PowerShell script examples to help you create and manage Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance resources.
author: WilliamDAssafMSFT
ms.author: wiassaf
ms.reviewer: mathoma
ms.date: 09/22/2022
ms.service: sql-db-mi
ms.subservice: development
ms.topic: sample
ms.custom: sqldbrb=2, devx-track-azurepowershell
ms.devlang: powershell
---

# Azure PowerShell samples for Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-sqldb-sqlmi](../includes/appliesto-sqldb-sqlmi.md)]

Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance enable you to configure your databases, instances, and pools using Azure PowerShell.

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you choose to install and use the PowerShell locally, this tutorial requires AZ PowerShell 1.4.0 or later. If you need to upgrade, see [Install Azure PowerShell module](/powershell/azure/install-az-ps). If you are running PowerShell locally, you also need to run `Connect-AzAccount` to create a connection with Azure.

## [Azure SQL Database](#tab/single-database)

The following table includes links to sample Azure PowerShell scripts for Azure SQL Database.

|Link|Description|
|---|---|
|**Create and configure single databases and elastic pools**||
| [Create a single database and configure a server-level firewall rule](scripts/create-and-configure-database-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script creates a single database and configures a server-level IP firewall rule. |
| [Create elastic pools and move pooled databases](scripts/move-database-between-elastic-pools-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script creates elastic pools, moves pooled databases, and changes compute sizes.|
|**Configure geo-replication and failover**||
| [Configure and fail over a single database using active geo-replication](scripts/setup-geodr-and-failover-database-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script configures active geo-replication for a single database and fails it over to the secondary replica. |
| [Configure and fail over a pooled database using active geo-replication](scripts/setup-geodr-and-failover-elastic-pool-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script configures active geo-replication for a database in an elastic pool and fails it over to the secondary replica. |
|**Configure a failover group**||
| [Configure a failover group for a single database](scripts/add-database-to-failover-group-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script creates a database and a failover group, adds the database to the failover group, and tests failover to the secondary server. |
| [Configure a failover group for an elastic pool](scripts/add-elastic-pool-to-failover-group-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script creates a database, adds it to an elastic pool, adds the elastic pool to the failover group, and tests failover to the secondary server. |
|**Scale a single database and an elastic pool**||
| [Scale a single database](scripts/monitor-and-scale-database-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script monitors the performance metrics of a single database, scales it to a higher compute size, and creates an alert rule on one of the performance metrics. |
| [Scale an elastic pool](scripts/monitor-and-scale-pool-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script monitors the performance metrics of an elastic pool, scales it to a higher compute size, and creates an alert rule on one of the performance metrics. |
| **Restore, copy, and import a database**||
| [Restore a database](scripts/restore-database-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script restores a database from a geo-redundant backup and restores a deleted database to the latest backup. |
| [Copy a database to a new server](scripts/copy-database-to-new-server-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script creates a copy of an existing database in a new server. |
| [Import a database from a bacpac file](scripts/import-from-bacpac-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script imports a database into Azure SQL Database from a bacpac file. |
| **Sync data between databases**||
| [Sync data between databases](scripts/sql-data-sync-sync-data-between-sql-databases.md) | This PowerShell script configures Data Sync to sync between multiple databases in Azure SQL Database. |
| [Sync data between SQL Database and SQL Server on-premises](scripts/sql-data-sync-sync-data-between-azure-onprem.md) | This PowerShell script configures Data Sync to sync between a database in Azure SQL Database and a SQL Server on-premises database. |
| [Update the SQL Data Sync sync schema](scripts/update-sync-schema-in-sync-group.md) | This PowerShell script adds or removes items from the Data Sync sync schema. |

Learn more about the [Single-database Azure PowerShell API](single-database-manage.md#powershell).

## [Azure SQL Managed Instance](#tab/managed-instance)

The following table includes links to sample Azure PowerShell scripts for Azure SQL Managed Instance.

|Link|Description|
|---|---|
|**Create and configure managed instances**||
| [Create and manage a managed instance](../managed-instance/scripts/create-configure-managed-instance-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script shows you how to create and manage a managed instance using Azure PowerShell. |
| [Create and manage a managed instance using the Azure Resource Manager template](../managed-instance/create-template-quickstart.md) | This PowerShell script shows you how to create and manage a managed instance using Azure PowerShell and the Azure Resource Manager template.|
| [Restore database to a managed instance in another geo-region](../managed-instance/scripts/restore-geo-backup.md) | This PowerShell script takes a backup of one database and restores it to another region. This is known as a geo-restore disaster-recovery scenario. |
| **Configure transparent data encryption**||
| [Manage transparent data encryption in a managed instance using your own key from Azure Key Vault](../managed-instance/scripts/transparent-data-encryption-byok-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script configures transparent data encryption in a Bring Your Own Key scenario for Azure SQL Managed Instance, using a key from Azure Key Vault.|
|**Configure a failover group**||
| [Configure a failover group for a managed instance](../managed-instance/scripts/add-to-failover-group-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script creates two managed instances, adds them to a failover group, and then tests failover from the primary managed instance to the secondary managed instance. |

Learn more about [PowerShell cmdlets for Azure SQL Managed Instance](../managed-instance/api-references-create-manage-instance.md#powershell-create-and-configure-managed-instances).

---

## Next steps

The examples listed on this page use [az.sql PowerShell cmdlets](/powershell/module/az.sql/) for creating and managing Azure SQL resources. Additional cmdlets for running queries and performing many database tasks are located in the [SqlServer PowerShell cmdlets](/powershell/module/sqlserver/). For more information, see [SQL Server PowerShell](/sql/powershell/sql-server-powershell/).

Commit message:

Splitting move region article
fixing metadata

editing things

splitting samples and move articles

fixing things

acrolinx

fixing blocking issues

azure-sql/database/powershell-script-content-guide.md, after:

---
title: Azure PowerShell script examples
titleSuffix: Azure SQL Database
description: Use Azure PowerShell script examples to help you create and manage Azure SQL Database resources.
author: WilliamDAssafMSFT
ms.author: wiassaf
ms.reviewer: mathoma
ms.date: 04/30/2024
ms.service: sql-database
ms.subservice: development
ms.topic: sample
ms.custom: azure-sql-split, devx-track-azurepowershell
ms.devlang: powershell
monikerRange: "= azuresql || = azuresql-db"
---

# Azure PowerShell samples for Azure SQL Database 

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-sqldbi](../includes/appliesto-sqldb.md)]

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Azure SQL Database](powershell-script-content-guide.md?view=azuresql&preserve-view=true)
> * [Azure SQL Managed Instance](../managed-instance/powershell-script-content-guide.md?view=azuresql&preserve-view=true)

Azure SQL Database enables you to configure your databases, and pools by using Azure PowerShell.

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you choose to install and use the PowerShell locally, this tutorial requires AZ PowerShell 1.4.0 or later. If you need to upgrade, see [Install Azure PowerShell module](/powershell/azure/install-az-ps). If you are running PowerShell locally, you also need to run `Connect-AzAccount` to create a connection with Azure.

## Samples

The following table includes links to sample Azure PowerShell scripts for Azure SQL Database.

|Link|Description|
|---|---|
|**Create and configure single databases and elastic pools**||
| [Create a single database and configure a server-level firewall rule](scripts/create-and-configure-database-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script creates a single database and configures a server-level IP firewall rule. |
| [Create elastic pools and move pooled databases](scripts/move-database-between-elastic-pools-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script creates elastic pools, moves pooled databases, and changes compute sizes.|
|**Configure geo-replication and failover**||
| [Configure and fail over a single database using active geo-replication](scripts/setup-geodr-and-failover-database-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script configures active geo-replication for a single database and fails it over to the secondary replica. |
| [Configure and fail over a pooled database using active geo-replication](scripts/setup-geodr-and-failover-elastic-pool-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script configures active geo-replication for a database in an elastic pool and fails it over to the secondary replica. |
|**Configure a failover group**||
| [Configure a failover group for a single database](scripts/add-database-to-failover-group-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script creates a database and a failover group, adds the database to the failover group, and tests failover to the secondary server. |
| [Configure a failover group for an elastic pool](scripts/add-elastic-pool-to-failover-group-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script creates a database, adds it to an elastic pool, adds the elastic pool to the failover group, and tests failover to the secondary server. |
|**Scale a single database and an elastic pool**||
| [Scale a single database](scripts/monitor-and-scale-database-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script monitors the performance metrics of a single database, scales it to a higher compute size, and creates an alert rule on one of the performance metrics. |
| [Scale an elastic pool](scripts/monitor-and-scale-pool-powershell.md) | This PowerShell script monitors the performance metrics of an elastic pool, scales it to a higher compute size, and creates an alert rule on one of the performance metrics. |
| **Restore, copy, and import a database**||
| [Restore a database](scripts/restore-database-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script restores a database from a geo-redundant backup and restores a deleted database to the latest backup. |
| [Copy a database to a new server](scripts/copy-database-to-new-server-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script creates a copy of an existing database in a new server. |
| [Import a database from a bacpac file](scripts/import-from-bacpac-powershell.md)| This PowerShell script imports a database into Azure SQL Database from a bacpac file. |
| **Sync data between databases**||
| [Sync data between databases](scripts/sql-data-sync-sync-data-between-sql-databases.md) | This PowerShell script configures Data Sync to sync between multiple databases in Azure SQL Database. |
| [Sync data between SQL Database and SQL Server on-premises](scripts/sql-data-sync-sync-data-between-azure-onprem.md) | This PowerShell script configures Data Sync to sync between a database in Azure SQL Database and a SQL Server on-premises database. |
| [Update the SQL Data Sync sync schema](scripts/update-sync-schema-in-sync-group.md) | This PowerShell script adds or removes items from the Data Sync sync schema. |

Learn more about the [Single-database Azure PowerShell API](single-database-manage.md#powershell).


## Related content

The examples listed on this page use [az.sql PowerShell cmdlets](/powershell/module/az.sql/) to create and manage Azure SQL resources. Additional cmdlets for running queries and performing many database tasks are located in [SqlServer PowerShell cmdlets](/powershell/module/sqlserver/). For more information, see [SQL Server PowerShell](/sql/powershell/sql-server-powershell/).
