azure-sql/managed-instance/restore-database-to-sql-server.md, before:

---
title: Restore a database to SQL Server
titleSuffix: Azure SQL Managed Instance
description: Learn how to restore a database to SQL Server 2022 from Azure SQL Managed Instance.
author: mladjoa
ms.author: mlandzic
ms.reviewer: mathoma, danil
ms.date: 06/02/2022
ms.service: sql-managed-instance
ms.subservice: data-movement
ms.custom: ignite-2023
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Restore a database to SQL Server 2022 from Azure SQL Managed Instance

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-sqlmi](../includes/appliesto-sqlmi.md)]

This article describes how to restore a database backup from Azure SQL Managed Instance to SQL Server 2022. 

## Overview

The database format alignment between SQL Managed Instance and SQL Server 2022 gives you an easy way to copy or move databases from your managed instance to an Enterprise, Developer, or Standard edition of SQL Server 2022 hosted on-premises, on virtual machines in Azure, or in other clouds. 

Restoring databases from managed instances to SQL Server 2022 instances unlocks the following scenarios:

- Ensures database mobility between SQL Managed Instance and SQL Server-based products.
- Provides database copies to customers and other eligible parties. 
- Refreshes environments outside SQL Managed Instance.

The ability to restore copy-only full backups of databases from SQL Managed Instance to SQL Server 2022 is available by default in all existing and any new deployed instances.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The ability to restore copy-only full backups of databases from SQL Managed Instance to SQL Server 2022 will be available until the end of [mainstream support for SQL Server 2022](/lifecycle/products/sql-server-2022).

## Take a backup on SQL Managed Instance 

First, create a credential to access the storage account from your instance, take a copy-only backup of your database, and then store it. 

You can create your credential by using a managed identity or a shared access signature (SAS) token. 

### [Managed identity](#tab/managed-identity)

A *managed identity* is a feature of Microsoft Entra ID ([formerly Azure Active Directory](/entra/fundamentals/new-name)) that provides instances of Azure services, such as Azure SQL Managed Instance, with an automatically managed identity in Microsoft Entra ID, the system-assigned managed identity. 

You can use this identity to authorize requests for data access to other Azure resources, including storage accounts. Services such as Azure SQL Managed Instance have a system assigned managed identity, and can also have one or more [user-assigned managed identities](authentication-azure-ad-user-assigned-managed-identity-create-managed-instance.md). You can use either system-assigned managed identities or user-assigned managed identities to authorize the requests.

Before the Azure storage administrator writes a backup file to a storage account, they must grant permissions to the managed identity to write the data. Granting permissions to the managed identity of the instance is done the same way as granting permissions to any other Microsoft Entra user. For example:

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Access Control (IAM)** pane of a storage account, select **Add role assignment**.  
1. Select the **Storage Blob Data Contributor** built-in Azure role-based access control (RBAC) role. This provides read/write access to the managed identity for the necessary Azure Blob Storage containers.
   
    Instead of granting the managed identity the Storage Blob Data Contributor Azure RBAC role, you can grant more granular permissions. To learn more, see [Set ACLs in Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2](/azure/storage/blobs/data-lake-storage-explorer-acl).
1. On the next page, for **Assign access to**, select **Managed identity**. 
1. Choose **Select members** and then, in the **Managed identity** dropdown list, select the appropriate managed identity. For more information, see [Assign Azure roles by using the Azure portal](/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal).

Now, creating the database-scoped credential for managed identity authentication is simple. 

In the following example, note that `Managed Identity` is a hard-coded string, and you need to replace the generic storage account name with the name of the actual storage account: 

```sql
CREATE CREDENTIAL [https://<mystorageaccountname>.blob.core.windows.net/<containername>] 
WITH IDENTITY = 'MANAGED IDENTITY'  
```
### [SAS token](#tab/sas-token)

To create a credential using an [SAS token](/sql/relational-databases/tutorial-use-azure-blob-storage-service-with-sql-server-2016), run the following sample T-SQL command: 

```sql
CREATE CREDENTIAL [https://<mystorageaccountname>.blob.core.windows.net/<containername>] 
WITH IDENTITY = 'SHARED ACCESS SIGNATURE',
SECRET = '<SAS_TOKEN>';
```

---

Next, take a `COPY_ONLY` backup of your database by running the following sample T-SQL command: 


```sql 
BACKUP DATABASE [SampleDB]
TO URL = 'https://<mystorageaccountname>.blob.core.windows.net/<containername>/SampleDB.bak'
WITH COPY_ONLY
```


## Restore to SQL Server 

Restore the database to SQL Server by using the `WITH MOVE` option of the RESTORE DATABASE T-SQL command and providing explicit file paths for your files on the destination server.

To restore your database to SQL Server, run the following sample T-SQL command with file paths appropriate to your environment: 

```sql
RESTORE DATABASE [SampleDB]
FROM URL = 'https://<mystorageaccountname>.blob.core.windows.net/<containername>/SampleDB.bak'
WITH
MOVE 'data_0' TO 'C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL16.MSSQLSERVER\MSSQL\DATA\SampleDB_data_0.mdf',
MOVE 'log' TO 'C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL16.MSSQLSERVER\MSSQL\DATA\SampleDBlog.ldf',
MOVE 'XTP' TO 'C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL16.MSSQLSERVER\MSSQL\DATA\SampleDB_xtp.xtp'
```

> [!NOTE]
> To restore databases that are encrypted at rest by using [Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)](../database/transparent-data-encryption-tde-overview.md), the destination instance of SQL Server must have access to the same key that's used to protect the source database through the SQL Server Connector for Azure Key Vault. For details, review [Set up SQL Server TDE with AKV](/sql/relational-databases/security/encryption/setup-steps-for-extensible-key-management-using-the-azure-key-vault).

## Considerations

When you're restoring a database to SQL Server, consider the following:

- You must use the `WITH MOVE` qualifier and provide explicit paths for the data files. 
- Databases that are encrypted with service-managed TDE keys can't be restored to SQL Server. You can restore an encrypted database to SQL Server only if it was encrypted with a customer-managed key and the destination server has access to the same key that's used to encrypt the database. For more information, see [Set up SQL Server TDE with Azure Key Vault](/sql/relational-databases/security/encryption/setup-steps-for-extensible-key-management-using-the-azure-key-vault). 
- In the future, some features might be introduced to Azure SQL Managed Instance that require changes to the database format, making backups incompatible with SQL Server 2022. Access to such features will require explicit opt-in. 

## Next steps

- To learn how to create your first managed instance, see [Quickstart guide](instance-create-quickstart.md).
- For a features and comparison list, see [SQL common features](../database/features-comparison.md).
- For more information about virtual network configuration, see [SQL Managed Instance virtual network configuration](connectivity-architecture-overview.md).
- For a quickstart that creates a managed instance and restores a database from a backup file, see [Create a managed instance](instance-create-quickstart.md).
- For a tutorial about using Azure Database Migration Service for migration, see [SQL Managed Instance migration using Database Migration Service](/azure/dms/tutorial-sql-server-to-managed-instance).
- For advanced monitoring of SQL Managed Instance database performance with built-in troubleshooting intelligence, see [Monitor Azure SQL Managed Instance by using Azure SQL Analytics](/azure/azure-monitor/insights/azure-sql).
- For pricing information, see [SQL Database pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/sql-database/managed/).

Commit message:

Merging update policy release branch into Azure SQL build release branch (#30647)
* Learn Editor: Update copy-into-transact-sql.md

* Learn Editor: Update copy-into-transact-sql.md

* Learn Editor: Update copy-into-transact-sql.md

* Learn Editor: Update copy-into-transact-sql.md

* Staging update policy

forcing a new build of toc

added overview

staging sample

Apply suggestions from code review

adding Mladen's changes

Co-authored-by: Mladen Andzic (Msft) <mlandzic@microsoft.com>

adding more of mladen's changes

updating dr prerqs

fixing things

fixing more things

updating metadata

acrolinx and other fixes

added info about failover group failover

fixing fog language

more of mladen's changes

fixing wording a bit

* fixing missing bracket

* 20240513 Update polybase-pushdown-computation.md

* 20240513 acrolinx

* 20240513 acrolinx

* Tweak edition footnotes

* 20240513 Update polybase-pushdown-computation.md

* 20240513 Update copy-into-transact-sql.md

* EOMONTH tweak (UUF 251278)

* Update copy-into-transact-sql.md

Changed from trusted access to resource instance rule

* Fix value method example and clarify type (UUF 236969 and 253168)

* Fix topic link icon to work in light and dark mode

---------

Co-authored-by: SQLStijn-MSFT <113684063+SQLStijn-MSFT@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Anna Huff <92125952+AnnaMHuff@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Alma Jenks <v-alje@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: Diana Richards <103777760+v-dirichards@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: William Assaf MSFT <74387232+WilliamDAssafMSFT@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Randolph West MSFT <97149825+rwestMSFT@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: prmerger-automator[bot] <40007230+prmerger-automator[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

azure-sql/managed-instance/restore-database-to-sql-server.md, after:

---
title: Restore a database to SQL Server
titleSuffix: Azure SQL Managed Instance
description: Learn how to restore a database to SQL Server 2022 from Azure SQL Managed Instance.
author: mladjoa
ms.author: mlandzic
ms.reviewer: mathoma, danil
ms.date: 06/02/2022
ms.service: sql-managed-instance
ms.subservice: data-movement
ms.custom: ignite-2023
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Restore a database to SQL Server 2022 from Azure SQL Managed Instance

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-sqlmi](../includes/appliesto-sqlmi.md)]

This article describes how to restore a database backup from Azure SQL Managed Instance to SQL Server 2022. 

## Overview

The database format alignment between SQL Managed Instance and SQL Server 2022 gives you an easy way to copy or move databases from your managed instance to an Enterprise, Developer, or Standard edition of SQL Server 2022 hosted on-premises, on virtual machines in Azure, or in other clouds. 

Restoring databases from managed instances to SQL Server 2022 instances unlocks the following scenarios:

- Ensures database mobility between SQL Managed Instance and SQL Server-based products.
- Provides database copies to customers and other eligible parties. 
- Refreshes environments outside SQL Managed Instance.

The ability to restore copy-only full backups of databases from SQL Managed Instance to SQL Server 2022 is available by default in all existing and any new deployed instances.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The ability to restore copy-only full backups of databases from SQL Managed Instance to SQL Server 2022 will be available until the end of [mainstream support for SQL Server 2022](/lifecycle/products/sql-server-2022).

## Take a backup on SQL Managed Instance 

First, create a credential to access the storage account from your instance, take a copy-only backup of your database, and then store it. 

You can create your credential by using a managed identity or a shared access signature (SAS) token. 

### [Managed identity](#tab/managed-identity)

A *managed identity* is a feature of Microsoft Entra ID ([formerly Azure Active Directory](/entra/fundamentals/new-name)) that provides instances of Azure services, such as Azure SQL Managed Instance, with an automatically managed identity in Microsoft Entra ID, the system-assigned managed identity. 

You can use this identity to authorize requests for data access to other Azure resources, including storage accounts. Services such as Azure SQL Managed Instance have a system assigned managed identity, and can also have one or more [user-assigned managed identities](authentication-azure-ad-user-assigned-managed-identity-create-managed-instance.md). You can use either system-assigned managed identities or user-assigned managed identities to authorize the requests.

Before the Azure storage administrator writes a backup file to a storage account, they must grant permissions to the managed identity to write the data. Granting permissions to the managed identity of the instance is done the same way as granting permissions to any other Microsoft Entra user. For example:

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Access Control (IAM)** pane of a storage account, select **Add role assignment**.  
1. Select the **Storage Blob Data Contributor** built-in Azure role-based access control (RBAC) role. This provides read/write access to the managed identity for the necessary Azure Blob Storage containers.
   
    Instead of granting the managed identity the Storage Blob Data Contributor Azure RBAC role, you can grant more granular permissions. To learn more, see [Set ACLs in Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2](/azure/storage/blobs/data-lake-storage-explorer-acl).
1. On the next page, for **Assign access to**, select **Managed identity**. 
1. Choose **Select members** and then, in the **Managed identity** dropdown list, select the appropriate managed identity. For more information, see [Assign Azure roles by using the Azure portal](/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal).

Now, creating the database-scoped credential for managed identity authentication is simple. 

In the following example, note that `Managed Identity` is a hard-coded string, and you need to replace the generic storage account name with the name of the actual storage account: 

```sql
CREATE CREDENTIAL [https://<mystorageaccountname>.blob.core.windows.net/<containername>] 
WITH IDENTITY = 'MANAGED IDENTITY'  
```
### [SAS token](#tab/sas-token)

To create a credential using an [SAS token](/sql/relational-databases/tutorial-use-azure-blob-storage-service-with-sql-server-2016), run the following sample T-SQL command: 

```sql
CREATE CREDENTIAL [https://<mystorageaccountname>.blob.core.windows.net/<containername>] 
WITH IDENTITY = 'SHARED ACCESS SIGNATURE',
SECRET = '<SAS_TOKEN>';
```

---

Next, take a `COPY_ONLY` backup of your database by running the following sample T-SQL command: 


```sql 
BACKUP DATABASE [SampleDB]
TO URL = 'https://<mystorageaccountname>.blob.core.windows.net/<containername>/SampleDB.bak'
WITH COPY_ONLY
```


## Restore to SQL Server 

Restore the database to SQL Server by using the `WITH MOVE` option of the RESTORE DATABASE T-SQL command and providing explicit file paths for your files on the destination server.

To restore your database to SQL Server, run the following sample T-SQL command with file paths appropriate to your environment: 

```sql
RESTORE DATABASE [SampleDB]
FROM URL = 'https://<mystorageaccountname>.blob.core.windows.net/<containername>/SampleDB.bak'
WITH
MOVE 'data_0' TO 'C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL16.MSSQLSERVER\MSSQL\DATA\SampleDB_data_0.mdf',
MOVE 'log' TO 'C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL16.MSSQLSERVER\MSSQL\DATA\SampleDBlog.ldf',
MOVE 'XTP' TO 'C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL16.MSSQLSERVER\MSSQL\DATA\SampleDB_xtp.xtp'
```

> [!NOTE]
> To restore databases that are encrypted at rest by using [Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)](../database/transparent-data-encryption-tde-overview.md), the destination instance of SQL Server must have access to the same key that's used to protect the source database through the SQL Server Connector for Azure Key Vault. For details, review [Set up SQL Server TDE with AKV](/sql/relational-databases/security/encryption/setup-steps-for-extensible-key-management-using-the-azure-key-vault).

## Considerations

When you're restoring a database to SQL Server, consider the following:

- You must use the `WITH MOVE` qualifier and provide explicit paths for the data files. 
- Databases that are encrypted with service-managed TDE keys can't be restored to SQL Server. You can restore an encrypted database to SQL Server only if it was encrypted with a customer-managed key and the destination server has access to the same key that's used to encrypt the database. For more information, see [Set up SQL Server TDE with Azure Key Vault](/sql/relational-databases/security/encryption/setup-steps-for-extensible-key-management-using-the-azure-key-vault). 
- This capability is only available to instances with the [**SQL Server 2022** update policy](update-policy.md#sql-server-2022-update-policy). You will not be able to restore your database backup to SQL Server 2022 from an instance with the **Always up to date** update policy. 

## Next steps

- To learn how to create your first managed instance, see [Quickstart guide](instance-create-quickstart.md).
- For a features and comparison list, see [SQL common features](../database/features-comparison.md).
- For more information about virtual network configuration, see [SQL Managed Instance virtual network configuration](connectivity-architecture-overview.md).
- For a quickstart that creates a managed instance and restores a database from a backup file, see [Create a managed instance](instance-create-quickstart.md).
- For a tutorial about using Azure Database Migration Service for migration, see [SQL Managed Instance migration using Database Migration Service](/azure/dms/tutorial-sql-server-to-managed-instance).
- For advanced monitoring of SQL Managed Instance database performance with built-in troubleshooting intelligence, see [Monitor Azure SQL Managed Instance by using Azure SQL Analytics](/azure/azure-monitor/insights/azure-sql).
- For pricing information, see [SQL Database pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/sql-database/managed/).
