docs/t-sql/functions/avg-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "AVG (Transact-SQL)"
description: "AVG (Transact-SQL)"
author: markingmyname
ms.author: maghan
ms.date: "07/24/2017"
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: t-sql
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "AVG_TSQL"
  - "AVG"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "AVG function [Transact-SQL]"
  - "GROUP BY clause, AVG function"
  - "DISTINCT keyword"
  - "values [SQL Server], average"
  - "average values"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: ">= aps-pdw-2016 || = azuresqldb-current || = azure-sqldw-latest || >= sql-server-2016 || >= sql-server-linux-2017 || = azuresqldb-mi-current||=fabric"
---
# AVG (Transact-SQL)
[!INCLUDE [sql-asdb-asdbmi-asa-pdw-fabricse-fabricdw](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdb-asdbmi-asa-pdw-fabricse-fabricdw.md)]

This function returns the average of the values in a group. It ignores null values.
  
:::image type="icon" source="../../includes/media/topic-link-icon.svg" border="false"::: [Transact-SQL syntax conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)
  
## Syntax  
  
```syntaxsql
AVG ( [ ALL | DISTINCT ] expression )  
   [ OVER ( [ partition_by_clause ] order_by_clause ) ]
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[sql-server-tsql-previous-offline-documentation](../../includes/sql-server-tsql-previous-offline-documentation.md)]

## Arguments
ALL  
Applies the aggregate function to all values. ALL is the default.
  
DISTINCT  
Specifies that AVG operates only on one unique instance of each value, regardless of how many times that value occurs.
  
*expression*  
An [expression](../../t-sql/language-elements/expressions-transact-sql.md) of the exact numeric or approximate numeric data type category, except for the **bit** data type. Aggregate functions and subqueries are not permitted.
  
OVER **(** [ *partition_by_clause* ] _order\_by\_clause_**)**  
*partition_by_clause* divides the result set produced by the FROM clause into partitions to which the function is applied. If not specified, the function treats all rows of the query result set as a single group. The *order_by_clause* determines the logical order in which the operation is performed. The *order_by_clause* is required. For more information, see [OVER Clause &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/queries/select-over-clause-transact-sql.md).
  
## Return types
The evaluated result of *expression* determines the return type.
  
|Expression result|Return type|  
|---|---|
|**tinyint**|**int**|  
|**smallint**|**int**|  
|**int**|**int**|  
|**bigint**|**bigint**|  
|**decimal** category (p, s)|**decimal(38, max(s,6))**|  
|**money** and **smallmoney** category|**money**|  
|**float** and **real** category|**float**|  
  
## Remarks  
If the data type of *expression* is an alias data type, the return type is also of the alias data type. However, if the base data type of the alias data type is promoted, for example from **tinyint** to **int**, the return value will take the promoted data type, and not the alias data type.
  
AVG () computes the average of a set of values by dividing the sum of those values by the count of nonnull values. If the sum exceeds the maximum value for the data type of the return value, AVG() will return an error.
  
AVG is a deterministic function when used without the OVER and ORDER BY clauses. It is nondeterministic when specified with the OVER and ORDER BY clauses. For more information, see [Deterministic and Nondeterministic Functions](../../relational-databases/user-defined-functions/deterministic-and-nondeterministic-functions.md).
  
## Examples  
  
### A. Using the SUM and AVG functions for calculations  
This example calculates the average vacation hours, and the sum of sick leave hours, that the vice presidents of [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBCoFull](../../includes/sssampledbcofull-md.md)] have used. Each of these aggregate functions produces a single summary value for all the retrieved rows. The example uses the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database.
  
```sql
SELECT AVG(VacationHours)AS 'Average vacation hours',   
    SUM(SickLeaveHours) AS 'Total sick leave hours'  
FROM HumanResources.Employee  
WHERE JobTitle LIKE 'Vice President%';  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
Average vacation hours       Total sick leave hours
 ----------------------       ----------------------
25                           97
  
(1 row(s) affected)
```
  
### B. Using the SUM and AVG functions with a GROUP BY clause  
When used with a `GROUP BY` clause, each aggregate function produces a single value covering each group, instead of a single value covering the whole table. The following example produces summary values for each sales territory in the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database. The summary lists the average bonus received by the sales people in each territory, and the sum of year-to-date sales for each territory.
  
```sql
SELECT TerritoryID, AVG(Bonus)as 'Average bonus', SUM(SalesYTD) as 'YTD sales'  
FROM Sales.SalesPerson  
GROUP BY TerritoryID;  
GO  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
TerritoryID Average Bonus         YTD Sales  
----------- --------------------- ---------------------  
NULL        0.00                  1252127.9471  
1           4133.3333             4502152.2674  
2           4100.00               3763178.1787  
3           2500.00               3189418.3662  
4           2775.00               6709904.1666  
5           6700.00               2315185.611  
6           2750.00               4058260.1825  
7           985.00                3121616.3202  
8           75.00                 1827066.7118  
9           5650.00               1421810.9242  
10          5150.00               4116871.2277  
  
(11 row(s) affected)  
```  
  
### C. Using AVG with DISTINCT  
This statement returns the average list price of products in the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database. Through the use of DISTINCT, the calculation considers only unique values.
  
```sql
SELECT AVG(DISTINCT ListPrice)  
FROM Production.Product;  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
------------------------------
437.4042
  
(1 row(s) affected)
```
  
### D. Using AVG without DISTINCT  
Without DISTINCT, the `AVG` function finds the average list price of all products in the `Product` table in the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database, including any duplicate values.
  
```sql
SELECT AVG(ListPrice)  
FROM Production.Product;  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
------------------------------
438.6662
  
(1 row(s) affected)
```
  
### E. Using the OVER clause  
The following example uses the AVG function with the OVER clause, to provide a moving average of yearly sales for each territory in the `Sales.SalesPerson` table in the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database. The data is partitioned by `TerritoryID` and logically ordered by `SalesYTD`. This means that the AVG function is computed for each territory based on the sales year. Note that for `TerritoryID` 1, there are two rows for sales year 2005, which represent the two sales-people with sales that year. The average sales for these two rows is calculated, and then the third row representing sales for the year 2006 is included in the calculation.
  
```sql
SELECT BusinessEntityID, TerritoryID   
   ,DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate) AS SalesYear  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),SalesYTD,1) AS  SalesYTD  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),AVG(SalesYTD) OVER (PARTITION BY TerritoryID   
                                            ORDER BY DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate)   
                                           ),1) AS MovingAvg  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),SUM(SalesYTD) OVER (PARTITION BY TerritoryID   
                                            ORDER BY DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate)   
                                            ),1) AS CumulativeTotal  
FROM Sales.SalesPerson  
WHERE TerritoryID IS NULL OR TerritoryID < 5  
ORDER BY TerritoryID,SalesYear;  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
BusinessEntityID TerritoryID SalesYear   SalesYTD             MovingAvg            CumulativeTotal  
---------------- ----------- ----------- -------------------- -------------------- --------------------  
274              NULL        2005        559,697.56           559,697.56           559,697.56  
287              NULL        2006        519,905.93           539,801.75           1,079,603.50  
285              NULL        2007        172,524.45           417,375.98           1,252,127.95  
283              1           2005        1,573,012.94         1,462,795.04         2,925,590.07  
280              1           2005        1,352,577.13         1,462,795.04         2,925,590.07  
284              1           2006        1,576,562.20         1,500,717.42         4,502,152.27  
275              2           2005        3,763,178.18         3,763,178.18         3,763,178.18  
277              3           2005        3,189,418.37         3,189,418.37         3,189,418.37  
276              4           2005        4,251,368.55         3,354,952.08         6,709,904.17  
281              4           2005        2,458,535.62         3,354,952.08         6,709,904.17  
  
(10 row(s) affected)  
  
```  
  
In this example, the OVER clause does not include PARTITION BY. This means that the function will apply to all rows returned by the query. The ORDER BY clause specified in the OVER clause determines the logical order to which the AVG function applies. The query returns a moving average of sales, by year, for all sales territories specified in the WHERE clause. The ORDER BY clause specified in the SELECT statement determines the order in which the SELECT statement displays the rows of the query.
  
```sql
SELECT BusinessEntityID, TerritoryID   
   ,DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate) AS SalesYear  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),SalesYTD,1) AS  SalesYTD  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),AVG(SalesYTD) OVER (ORDER BY DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate)   
                                            ),1) AS MovingAvg  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),SUM(SalesYTD) OVER (ORDER BY DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate)   
                                            ),1) AS CumulativeTotal  
FROM Sales.SalesPerson  
WHERE TerritoryID IS NULL OR TerritoryID < 5  
ORDER BY SalesYear;  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
BusinessEntityID TerritoryID SalesYear   SalesYTD             MovingAvg            CumulativeTotal  
---------------- ----------- ----------- -------------------- -------------------- --------------------  
274              NULL        2005        559,697.56           2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
275              2           2005        3,763,178.18         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
276              4           2005        4,251,368.55         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
277              3           2005        3,189,418.37         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
280              1           2005        1,352,577.13         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
281              4           2005        2,458,535.62         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
283              1           2005        1,573,012.94         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
284              1           2006        1,576,562.20         2,138,250.72         19,244,256.47  
287              NULL        2006        519,905.93           2,138,250.72         19,244,256.47  
285              NULL        2007        172,524.45           1,941,678.09         19,416,780.93  
(10 row(s) affected)  
```  
  
## See also
[Aggregate Functions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/functions/aggregate-functions-transact-sql.md)  
[OVER Clause &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/queries/select-over-clause-transact-sql.md)

Commit message:

update article with regard to real and float data types

docs/t-sql/functions/avg-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "AVG (Transact-SQL)"
description: "AVG (Transact-SQL)"
author: markingmyname
ms.author: maghan
ms.date: "07/24/2017"
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: t-sql
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "AVG_TSQL"
  - "AVG"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "AVG function [Transact-SQL]"
  - "GROUP BY clause, AVG function"
  - "DISTINCT keyword"
  - "values [SQL Server], average"
  - "average values"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: ">= aps-pdw-2016 || = azuresqldb-current || = azure-sqldw-latest || >= sql-server-2016 || >= sql-server-linux-2017 || = azuresqldb-mi-current||=fabric"
---
# AVG (Transact-SQL)
[!INCLUDE [sql-asdb-asdbmi-asa-pdw-fabricse-fabricdw](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdb-asdbmi-asa-pdw-fabricse-fabricdw.md)]

This function returns the average of the values in a group. It ignores null values.
  
:::image type="icon" source="../../includes/media/topic-link-icon.svg" border="false"::: [Transact-SQL syntax conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)
  
## Syntax  
  
```syntaxsql
AVG ( [ ALL | DISTINCT ] expression )  
   [ OVER ( [ partition_by_clause ] order_by_clause ) ]
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[sql-server-tsql-previous-offline-documentation](../../includes/sql-server-tsql-previous-offline-documentation.md)]

## Arguments
ALL  
Applies the aggregate function to all values. ALL is the default.
  
DISTINCT  
Specifies that AVG operates only on one unique instance of each value, regardless of how many times that value occurs.
  
*expression*  
An [expression](../../t-sql/language-elements/expressions-transact-sql.md) of the exact numeric or approximate numeric data type category, except for the **bit** data type. Aggregate functions and subqueries aren't permitted.
  
OVER **(** [ *partition_by_clause* ] _order\_by\_clause_**)**  
*partition_by_clause* divides the result set produced by the FROM clause into partitions to which the function is applied. If not specified, the function treats all rows of the query result set as a single group. The *order_by_clause* determines the logical order in which the operation is performed. The *order_by_clause* is required. For more information, see [OVER Clause &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/queries/select-over-clause-transact-sql.md).
  
## Return types
The evaluated result of *expression* determines the return type.
  
|Expression result|Return type|  
|---|---|
|**tinyint**|**int**|  
|**smallint**|**int**|  
|**int**|**int**|  
|**bigint**|**bigint**|  
|**decimal** category (p, s)|**decimal(38, max(s,6))**|  
|**money** and **smallmoney** category|**money**|  
|**float** and **real** category|**float**|  
  
## Remarks  
If the data type of *expression* is an alias data type, the return type is also of the alias data type. However, if the base data type of the alias data type is promoted, for example from **tinyint** to **int**, the return value takes the promoted data type, and not the alias data type.
  
AVG () computes the average of a set of values by dividing the sum of those values by the count of non-null values. If the sum exceeds the maximum value for the data type of the return value, AVG() returns an error.
  
AVG is a deterministic function when used without the OVER and ORDER BY clauses. It's nondeterministic when specified with the OVER and ORDER BY clauses. For more information, see [Deterministic and Nondeterministic Functions](../../relational-databases/user-defined-functions/deterministic-and-nondeterministic-functions.md). Also, AVG may appear to behave as a nondeterministic function when you use it with [float and real](../data-types/float-and-real-transact-sql.md) data types. But the underlying reason is the approximate nature of these data types.
  
## Examples  
  
### A. Using the SUM and AVG functions for calculations  
This example calculates the average vacation hours, and the sum of sick leave hours, that the vice presidents of [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBCoFull](../../includes/sssampledbcofull-md.md)] have used. Each of these aggregate functions produces a single summary value for all the retrieved rows. The example uses the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database.
  
```sql
SELECT AVG(VacationHours)AS 'Average vacation hours',   
    SUM(SickLeaveHours) AS 'Total sick leave hours'  
FROM HumanResources.Employee  
WHERE JobTitle LIKE 'Vice President%';  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
Average vacation hours       Total sick leave hours
 ----------------------       ----------------------
25                           97
  
(1 row(s) affected)
```
  
### B. Using the SUM and AVG functions with a GROUP BY clause  
When used with a `GROUP BY` clause, each aggregate function produces a single value covering each group, instead of a single value covering the whole table. The following example produces summary values for each sales territory in the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database. The summary lists the average bonus received by the sales people in each territory, and the sum of year-to-date sales for each territory.
  
```sql
SELECT TerritoryID, AVG(Bonus)as 'Average bonus', SUM(SalesYTD) as 'YTD sales'  
FROM Sales.SalesPerson  
GROUP BY TerritoryID;  
GO  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
TerritoryID Average Bonus         YTD Sales  
----------- --------------------- ---------------------  
NULL        0.00                  1252127.9471  
1           4133.3333             4502152.2674  
2           4100.00               3763178.1787  
3           2500.00               3189418.3662  
4           2775.00               6709904.1666  
5           6700.00               2315185.611  
6           2750.00               4058260.1825  
7           985.00                3121616.3202  
8           75.00                 1827066.7118  
9           5650.00               1421810.9242  
10          5150.00               4116871.2277  
  
(11 row(s) affected)  
```  
  
### C. Using AVG with DISTINCT  
This statement returns the average list price of products in the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database. By using DISTINCT, the calculation considers only unique values.
  
```sql
SELECT AVG(DISTINCT ListPrice)  
FROM Production.Product;  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
------------------------------
437.4042
  
(1 row(s) affected)
```
  
### D. Using AVG without DISTINCT  
Without DISTINCT, the `AVG` function finds the average list price of all products in the `Product` table in the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database, including any duplicate values.
  
```sql
SELECT AVG(ListPrice)  
FROM Production.Product;  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
------------------------------
438.6662
  
(1 row(s) affected)
```
  
### E. Using the OVER clause  
The following example uses the AVG function with the OVER clause, to provide a moving average of yearly sales for each territory in the `Sales.SalesPerson` table in the [!INCLUDE[ssSampleDBnormal](../../includes/sssampledbnormal-md.md)] database. The data is partitioned by `TerritoryID` and logically ordered by `SalesYTD`. This means that the AVG function is computed for each territory based on the sales year. Note that for `TerritoryID` 1, there are two rows for sales year 2005, which represent the two sales-people with sales that year. The average sales for these two rows is calculated, and then the third row representing sales for the year 2006 is included in the calculation.
  
```sql
SELECT BusinessEntityID, TerritoryID   
   ,DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate) AS SalesYear  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),SalesYTD,1) AS  SalesYTD  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),AVG(SalesYTD) OVER (PARTITION BY TerritoryID   
                                            ORDER BY DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate)   
                                           ),1) AS MovingAvg  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),SUM(SalesYTD) OVER (PARTITION BY TerritoryID   
                                            ORDER BY DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate)   
                                            ),1) AS CumulativeTotal  
FROM Sales.SalesPerson  
WHERE TerritoryID IS NULL OR TerritoryID < 5  
ORDER BY TerritoryID,SalesYear;  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
BusinessEntityID TerritoryID SalesYear   SalesYTD             MovingAvg            CumulativeTotal  
---------------- ----------- ----------- -------------------- -------------------- --------------------  
274              NULL        2005        559,697.56           559,697.56           559,697.56  
287              NULL        2006        519,905.93           539,801.75           1,079,603.50  
285              NULL        2007        172,524.45           417,375.98           1,252,127.95  
283              1           2005        1,573,012.94         1,462,795.04         2,925,590.07  
280              1           2005        1,352,577.13         1,462,795.04         2,925,590.07  
284              1           2006        1,576,562.20         1,500,717.42         4,502,152.27  
275              2           2005        3,763,178.18         3,763,178.18         3,763,178.18  
277              3           2005        3,189,418.37         3,189,418.37         3,189,418.37  
276              4           2005        4,251,368.55         3,354,952.08         6,709,904.17  
281              4           2005        2,458,535.62         3,354,952.08         6,709,904.17  
  
(10 row(s) affected)  
  
```  
  
In this example, the OVER clause doesn't include PARTITION BY. This means that the function applies to all rows returned by the query. The ORDER BY clause specified in the OVER clause determines the logical order to which the AVG function applies. The query returns a moving average of sales, by year, for all sales territories specified in the WHERE clause. The ORDER BY clause specified in the SELECT statement determines the order in which the SELECT statement displays the rows of the query.
  
```sql
SELECT BusinessEntityID, TerritoryID   
   ,DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate) AS SalesYear  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),SalesYTD,1) AS  SalesYTD  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),AVG(SalesYTD) OVER (ORDER BY DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate)   
                                            ),1) AS MovingAvg  
   ,CONVERT(VARCHAR(20),SUM(SalesYTD) OVER (ORDER BY DATEPART(yy,ModifiedDate)   
                                            ),1) AS CumulativeTotal  
FROM Sales.SalesPerson  
WHERE TerritoryID IS NULL OR TerritoryID < 5  
ORDER BY SalesYear;  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```
BusinessEntityID TerritoryID SalesYear   SalesYTD             MovingAvg            CumulativeTotal  
---------------- ----------- ----------- -------------------- -------------------- --------------------  
274              NULL        2005        559,697.56           2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
275              2           2005        3,763,178.18         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
276              4           2005        4,251,368.55         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
277              3           2005        3,189,418.37         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
280              1           2005        1,352,577.13         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
281              4           2005        2,458,535.62         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
283              1           2005        1,573,012.94         2,449,684.05         17,147,788.35  
284              1           2006        1,576,562.20         2,138,250.72         19,244,256.47  
287              NULL        2006        519,905.93           2,138,250.72         19,244,256.47  
285              NULL        2007        172,524.45           1,941,678.09         19,416,780.93  
(10 row(s) affected)  
```  
  
## See also
[Aggregate Functions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/functions/aggregate-functions-transact-sql.md)  
[OVER Clause &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/queries/select-over-clause-transact-sql.md)
