docs/t-sql/functions/collation-functions-collationproperty-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "COLLATIONPROPERTY (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "10/24/2017"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine, sql-database, sql-data-warehouse, pdw"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "COLLATIONPROPERTY_TSQL"
  - "COLLATIONPROPERTY"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "collations [SQL Server], properties"
  - "COLLATIONPROPERTY function"
ms.assetid: f5029e74-a1db-4f69-b0f5-5ee920c3311d
author: MashaMSFT
ms.author: mathoma
manager: craigg
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016||=azuresqldb-current||=azure-sqldw-latest||>=sql-server-2016||=sqlallproducts-allversions||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# Collation Functions - COLLATIONPROPERTY (Transact-SQL)
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2008-all-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2008-all-md.md)]

This function returns the property of a specified collation in [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../includes/sscurrent-md.md)].
  
![Topic link icon](../../database-engine/configure-windows/media/topic-link.gif "Topic link icon") [Transact-SQL Syntax Conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)
  
## Syntax  
  
```sql
COLLATIONPROPERTY( collation_name , property )  
```  
  
## Arguments  
*collation_name*  
The name of the collation. The *collation_name* argument has an **nvarchar(128)** data type, with no default value.
  
*property*  
The collation property. The *property* argument has a **varchar(128)** data type, and can have any one of the following values:
  
|Property name|Description|  
|---|---|
|**CodePage**|Non-Unicode code page of the collation. See [Appendix G DBCS/Unicode Mapping Tables](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cc194886.aspx) and [Appendix H Code Pages](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cc195051.aspx) to translate these values, and to see their character mappings.|  
|**LCID**|Windows LCID of the collation. See [LCID Structure](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cc233968.aspx) to translate these values (you will first need to convert to **varbinary**).|  
|**ComparisonStyle**|Windows comparison style of the collation. Returns 0 for all binary collations - both (\_BIN) and (\_BIN2) - as well as when all properties are case sensitive. Bitmask values:<br /><br /> Ignore case : 1<br /><br /> Ignore accent : 2<br /><br /> Ignore Kana : 65536<br /><br /> Ignore width : 131072<br /><br /> Note: the variation-selector-sensitive (\_VSS) option is not represented in this value, even though it affects the comparison behavior.|  
|**Version**|The version of the collation, derived from the collation ID version field. Returns an integer value between 0 and 3.<br /><br /> Collations with "140" in the name return 3.<br /><br /> Collations with "100" in the name return 2.<br /><br /> Collations with "90" in the name return 1.<br /><br /> All other collations return 0.|  
  
## Return types
**sql_variant**
  
## Examples  
  
```sql
SELECT COLLATIONPROPERTY('Traditional_Spanish_CS_AS_KS_WS', 'CodePage');  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```sql
1252   
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssSDWfull](../../includes/sssdwfull-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)]  
  
```sql
SELECT COLLATIONPROPERTY('Traditional_Spanish_CS_AS_KS_WS', 'CodePage')  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```sql
1252   
```  
  
## See also
[sys.fn_helpcollations &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-functions/sys-fn-helpcollations-transact-sql.md)

Commit message:

Fix minor issues with collation-functions-collationproperty-transact-sql.md
1. Removed SQL Server version number from intro / summary. Behavior of this function does not vary between versions of SQL Server.

2. Improved wording of "LCID" definition: Defining LCID as LCID didn't give the reader any new information.

3. Improved wording of "Comparison" definition: A) Removed the word "case" (added by @fbsolo on 2018-04-23 via PR #566 ) as it should not have been added. Properties cannot be case-sensitive. "Case" is a property that can be either sensitive or insensitive. B) added collation variations that have all sensitivities enabled. Unique variations for "everything-sensitive" collations found using the following query:

SELECT DISTINCT SUBSTRING(col.[name], PATINDEX(N'%[_][BC][IS]%', col.[name]), 100) AS [Sensitivities]
FROM   sys.fn_helpcollations() col
WHERE  CONVERT(INT, COLLATIONPROPERTY(col.[name], N'ComparisonStyle')) = 0
ORDER BY [Sensitivities];
/*
_BIN
_BIN2
_CS_AS_KS_WS
_CS_AS_KS_WS_SC
_CS_AS_KS_WS_VSS
*/

4. Improved wording of "Version" definition. The "derived from the collation ID version field" clause is awkward and has meaning to so few people that it really just confuses people. 

5. Added "Base data type" to each property (based on format use in ( https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/functions/serverproperty-transact-sql ). Data types discovered using the following query:

SELECT SQL_VARIANT_PROPERTY(COLLATIONPROPERTY(N'Hebrew_100_CS_AS', N'CodePage'), 'basetype'),
       SQL_VARIANT_PROPERTY(COLLATIONPROPERTY(N'Hebrew_100_CS_AS', N'LCID'), 'basetype'),
       SQL_VARIANT_PROPERTY(COLLATIONPROPERTY(N'Hebrew_100_CS_AS', N'ComparisonStyle'), 'basetype'),
       SQL_VARIANT_PROPERTY(COLLATIONPROPERTY(N'Hebrew_100_CS_AS', N'Version'), 'basetype');
-- int    int    int    tinyint

docs/t-sql/functions/collation-functions-collationproperty-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "COLLATIONPROPERTY (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "10/24/2017"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine, sql-database, sql-data-warehouse, pdw"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "COLLATIONPROPERTY_TSQL"
  - "COLLATIONPROPERTY"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "collations [SQL Server], properties"
  - "COLLATIONPROPERTY function"
ms.assetid: f5029e74-a1db-4f69-b0f5-5ee920c3311d
author: MashaMSFT
ms.author: mathoma
manager: craigg
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016||=azuresqldb-current||=azure-sqldw-latest||>=sql-server-2016||=sqlallproducts-allversions||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# Collation Functions - COLLATIONPROPERTY (Transact-SQL)
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2008-all-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2008-all-md.md)]

This function returns the requested property of a specified collation.
  
![Topic link icon](../../database-engine/configure-windows/media/topic-link.gif "Topic link icon") [Transact-SQL Syntax Conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)
  
## Syntax  
  
```sql
COLLATIONPROPERTY( collation_name , property )  
```  
  
## Arguments  
*collation_name*  
The name of the collation. The *collation_name* argument has an **nvarchar(128)** data type, with no default value.
  
*property*  
The collation property. The *property* argument has a **varchar(128)** data type, and can have any one of the following values:
  
|Property name|Description|  
|---|---|
|**CodePage**|Non-Unicode code page of the collation. This is the character set used for **varchar** data. See [Appendix G DBCS/Unicode Mapping Tables](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cc194886.aspx) and [Appendix H Code Pages](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cc195051.aspx) to translate these values, and to see their character mappings.<br /><br />Base data type: **int**|  
|**LCID**|Windows locale ID of the collation. This is the culture used for sorting and comparison rules. See [LCID Structure](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cc233968.aspx) to translate these values (you will first need to convert to **varbinary**).<br /><br />Base data type: **int**|  
|**ComparisonStyle**|Windows comparison style of the collation. Returns 0 for binary collations - both (\_BIN) and (\_BIN2) - as well as when all properties are sensitive - (\_CS\_AS\_KS\_WS) and (\_CS\_AS\_KS\_WS\_SC) and (\_CS\_AS\_KS\_WS\_VSS). Bitmask values:<br /><br /> Ignore case : 1<br /><br /> Ignore accent : 2<br /><br /> Ignore Kana : 65536<br /><br /> Ignore width : 131072<br /><br /> Note: the variation-selector-sensitive (\_VSS) option is not represented in this value, even though it affects the comparison behavior.<br /><br />Base data type: **int**|  
|**Version**|The version of the collation. Returns a value between 0 and 3.<br /><br /> Collations with "140" in the name return 3.<br /><br /> Collations with "100" in the name return 2.<br /><br /> Collations with "90" in the name return 1.<br /><br /> All other collations return 0.<br /><br />Base data type: **tinyint**|  
  
## Return types
**sql_variant**
  
## Examples  
  
```sql
SELECT COLLATIONPROPERTY('Traditional_Spanish_CS_AS_KS_WS', 'CodePage');  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```sql
1252   
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssSDWfull](../../includes/sssdwfull-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)]  
  
```sql
SELECT COLLATIONPROPERTY('Traditional_Spanish_CS_AS_KS_WS', 'CodePage')  
```  
  
[!INCLUDE[ssResult](../../includes/ssresult-md.md)]
  
```sql
1252   
```  
  
## See also
[sys.fn_helpcollations &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-functions/sys-fn-helpcollations-transact-sql.md)
