---
title: High availability & disaster recovery for SQL Server | Microsoft Docs
description: 
author: MikeRayMSFT 
ms.author: mikeray
manager: jhubbard
ms.date: 09/14/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: sql-linux
ms.technology: database-engine
ms.assetid:
---


## Introduction
One common task everyone deploying SQL Server has to account for is making sure that all mission critical SQL Server instances and the databases within them are available when the business and end users need them, whether that is 9 to 5 or around the clock. Business continuity is also important when downtime happens. 
SQL Server 2017 introduces many new features or enhancements to existing ones, some of which are for availability. The biggest addition to SQL Server 2017 is the support for SQL Server on Linux distributions. For a full list of the new features in SQL Server 2017, see the topic “What’s New in SQL Server 2017”.
This paper is focused on covering the availability scenarios in SQL Server 2017 as well as the new and enhanced availability features in SQL Server 2017. The scenarios include hybrid ones that will be able to span SQL Server deployments on both Windows Server and Linux, as well as ones that can increase the number of readable copies of a database. While this paper does not cover availability options external to SQL Server, such as those provided by virtualization, everything discussed here applies to SQL Server installations inside a guest virtual machine whether in the public cloud or hosted by anon premises hypervisor server.
## SQL Server 2017 Scenarios Using the Availability Features
AGs, FCIs, and log shipping can be used in a variety of ways, and not necessarily just for availability purposes. There are four main ways the availability features can be used:
* High availability
* Disaster recovery
* Migrations and upgrades
* Scaling out readable copies of one or more databases
Each section will discuss the relevant features that can be used for that particular scenario. The one feature not covered is SQL Server’s replication feature. While not officially designated as an availability feature under the Always On umbrella, it is often used for making data redundant in certain scenarios. Replication will be added to SQL Server on Linux in a future release.
> [!IMPORTANT] The SQL Server availability features do not replace the requirement to have a robust, well tested backup and restore strategy.
## High Availability
Ensuring that SQL Server instances or database are available in the case of a problem that is local to a data center or single region in the cloud region is important. This section will cover how the SQL Server availability features can assist in that task. All of the features described are available both on Windows Server as well as on Linux in addition to backup and restore, which is the most fundamental building block of all availability solutions.
### Always On Availability Groups
Introduced in SQL Server 2012, Always On Availability Groups (AGs) provide database-level protection by sending each transaction of a database to another instance, known as a replica, that contains a copy of that database in a special state. An AG can be deployed on Standard or Enterprise Editions.  The instances participating in an AG can be either standalone or Always On Failover Cluster Instances (FCIs, described in the next section). Since the transactions are sent to a replica as they happen, AGs are recommended where there are requirements for lower recovery point and recovery time objectives. Data movement between replicas can be synchronous or asynchronous, with Enterprise Edition allowing up to three replicas (including the primary) as synchronous. An AG has one fully read/write copy of the database, while all others cannot receive transactions directly from end users or applications. 
Because AGs only provide database-level, and not instance-level, protection, anything not captured in the transaction log or configured in the database will need to manually synchronized for each secondary replica. Some examples of objects that must be synchronized manually are logins at the instance level, linked servers, and SQL Server Agent jobs.
An AG also has another component called the listener, which allows applications and end users to connect without needing to know which SQL Server instance is hosting the primary replica. Each AG would have its own listener. While the implementations of the listener are slightly different on Windows Server versus Linux, the functionality it provides and how it is used is the same. The picture below shows a Windows Server-based AG which is using a Windows Server Failover Cluster (WSFC). An underlying cluster at the OS layer is required for availability whether it is on Linux or Windows Server. The example shows a simple two server, or node, configuration. 
 
Standard and Enterprise Edition have some different limits. AGs in Standard Edition, known as Basic Availability Groups, supports only two replicas (primary and secondary) and a single database in the AG. Enterprise Edition allows multiple databases to be configured in a single AG which can have up to nine total replicas (one primary, eight secondary), as well as provides other optional benefits:
* Read-only queries on the secondary replica
* Full and transaction log backups on the secondary replica
* The ability to run DBCC CHECKDB on the secondary replica
* Support for distributed availability groups, described later in this paper
The ability to scale out readable copies of a database while also providing availability is a key benefit of Enterprise Edition that is further enhanced in SQL Server 2017 and will be described later in this paper in the section “Read Scale Out”.  The listener can also provide access to the readable copies of the data providing one point of entry no matter what kind of workload is being run.
When it comes to availability, AGs can provide either automatic or manual failover. Automatic failover can occur if synchronous data movement is configured and the database on the primary and secondary replica are in a synchronized state. As long as the listener is used and the application uses a later version of .NET  (3.5 with an update, or 4.0 and above), the failover should be handled with minimal to no impact to end users if a listener is utilized. Failover to make a secondary replica the new primary replica can be configured to be automatic or manual, and generally is measured in seconds.
The list below highlights some differences with AGs on Windows Server versus Linux:
* * Due to differences in the way the underlying cluster works on Linux and Windows Server, all failovers (manual or automatic) of AGs are done via the cluster on Linux. On Windows Server-based AG deployments, manual failovers must be done via SQL Server. Automatic failovers are handled by the cluster mechanism. 
* * In SQL Server 2017, the recommended configuration for AGs on Linux will be a minimum of three replicas. This is due to the way that the underlying clustering works. An improved solution for a two replica configuration will come post-release.
* * On Linux, the common name used by each listener is defined in DNS and not in the cluster like it is on Windows Server.
In SQL Server 2017, there are some new features and enhancements to AGs:
* * Enhanced Microsoft Distributor Transaction Coordinator (DTC) support for Windows Server-based configurations
* * The new option REQUIRED_SECONDARIES_TO_COMMIT
* * The addition of cluster types
* * Additional scaling out of read only databases (described later in this paper)
#### Enhanced Microsoft Distributed Transaction Coordinator Support
Before SQL Server 2016, the only way to get availability in SQL Server for applications that require distributed transactions which use DTC underneath the covers was to deploy FCIs. A distributed transaction can be done in one of two ways:
* * A transaction that spans more than one database in the same SQL Server instance
* * A transaction that spans more than one SQL Server instance or possibly involves a non-SQL Server data source
SQL Server 2016 introduced partial support for DTC with AGs that covered the latter scenario. SQL Server 2017 completes the story by supporting both scenarios with DTC. DTC support can only be configured on Windows Server-based AG deployments, not those on Linux. 
Another enhancement to DTC support for AGs is that in SQL Server 2016, enabling support for DTC to an AG could only be done when the AG was created, and could not be added later. In SQL Server 2017, DTC support can also be added to an AG after it is created. 
Database mirroring, which was deprecated in SQL Server 2012, is not available on the Linux version of SQL Server nor will it be added. Customers still using database mirroring should start planning to migrate to AGs, which is the replacement for database mirroring.
#### REQUIRED_SYNCHRONIZED_SECONDARIES_TO_COMMIT
SQL Server 2016 increased support for the number of synchronous replicas from two to three in Enterprise Edition. However, if one secondary replica was synchronized but the other was having a problem, there was no way to control the behavior to tell the primary to either wait for the misbehaving replica or to allow it to move on. This means that the primary replica could potentially be waiting for acknowledgement from the secondary replica so that the transaction can complete, and possibly data loss since the secondary replica would not be in a synchronized state.
In SQL Server 2017, there is now an option to be able to control the behavior of what happens which is REQUIRED_SYNCHRONIZED_SECONDARIES_TO_COMMIT. For a Windows Server-based AG, this setting is configured in SQL Server, while on Linux, it is done on the AG resource in the Pacemaker cluster. Valid values if set manually are 0, 1, and 2. The end goal is to ensure not only availability, but the level of data protection required when using synchronous data movement between replicas.
While REQUIRED_SYNCHRONIZED_SECONDARIES_TO_COMMIT was initially put in due to the differences in a WSFC and Pacemaker, it has benefits for both methods of deployments. If the value is set to 1 or 2, that means that there must be that number of secondary replicas that are in a synchronized state.
A value that is higher than 0 ensures higher data protection because if the required number of secondary replicas is not available, the primary will not be available until that is resolved. REQUIRED_SYNCHRONIZED_SECONDARIES_TO_COMMIT also affects failover behavior since automatic failover could not occur if the right number of secondary replicas were not in the proper state. On Linux, a value of 0 will not allow automatic failover, so on Linux, when using synchronous with automatic failover, the value must be set higher than 0 to achieve automatic failover. 0 on Windows Server is the SQL Server 2016 and earlier behavior.
#### Always On Availability Group Cluster Types
The built in availability form of clustering in Windows Server is enabled via a feature named Failover Clustering. It allows you to build a WSFC to be used with an AG or FCI. Integration for AGs and FCIs is provided by a cluster-aware resource DLLs shipped by SQL Server. 
Each supported Linux distribution ships its own version of the Pacemaker cluster solution. SQL Server 2017 on Linux supports the use of Pacemaker. Pacemaker is an open stack solution that each distribution can then integrate with their stack. While the distributions ship Pacemaker, it is not as integrated as the Failover Clustering feature in Windows Server.
A WSFC and Pacemaker are more similar than different. Both provide a way to take individual servers and combine them in a configuration to provide availability, and have concepts of things like resources, constraints (even if implemented differently), failover, and so on. To support Pacemaker for both AG and FCI configurations including things like automatic failover, Microsoft provides the mssql-server-ha package, which is similar to, but not exactly the same as, the resource DLLs in a WSFC, for Pacemaker. One of the differences between a WSFC and Pacemaker is that there is no network name resource in Pacemaker, which is the component that helps to abstract the name of the listener (or the name of the FCI) on a WSFC. DNS provides that name resolution on Linux.
Because of the difference in the cluster stack, some changes needed to be made for AGs because SQL Server has to handle some of the metadata that is natively handled by a WSFC. The most important change is the introduction of a cluster type for an AG. This is stored in sys.availability_groups in the cluster_type and cluster_type_desc columns. There are three cluster types:
* WSFC 
* External
* None
All AGs that require availability must use an underlying cluster, which in the case of SQL Server 2017 means a WSFC or Pacemaker. For Windows Server-based AGs that use an underlying WSFC, the default cluster type is WSFC and does not need to be set. For Linux-based AGs, when creating the AG, the cluster type must be set to External. The integration with Pacemaker is configured after the AG is created, whereas on a WSFC, it is done at creation time.
A cluster type of None can be used with both Windows Server and Linux AGs. Setting the cluster type to None means that the AG does not require an underlying cluster. This means SQL Server 2017 is the first version of SQL Server to support AGs without a cluster, but the tradeoff is that this configuration is not supported as a high availability solution. 
> [!IMPORTANT] SQL Server 2017 does not allow the ability to change a cluster type for an AG after it is created. This means that an AG cannot be switched from None to External or WSFC, or vice versa. 
For those who are only looking to just add additional read only copies of a database, or like what an AG provides for migration/upgrades but do not want to be tied to the additional complexity of an underlying cluster or even the replication , an AG with a cluster type of None is a perfect solution. For more information, see the sections “Migrations and Upgrades” and “Read Scale-out” later in this paper. 
The screenshot below shows the support for the different kinds of cluster types in SSMS. You must be running version 17.1 or later. 
 
### Always On Failover Cluster Instances
Clustered installations have been a feature of SQL Server since version 6.5. FCIs are a proven method of providing availability for the entire installation of SQL Server, known as an instance. This means that everything inside the instance, including databases, SQL Server Agent jobs, linked servers, et al., will move to another server should the underlying server encounter a problem. All FCIs require some sort of shared storage, even if it is provided via networking. The FCI’s resources can only be running and owned by one node at any given time. In the picture below, the first node of the cluster owns the FCI, which also means it owns the shared storage resources associated with it denoted by the solid line to the storage.
 
After a failover, ownership changes as is seen in the picture below.
 
There is zero data loss with an FCI, but the underlying shared storage is a single point of failure since there is one copy of the data. FCIs are often combined with another availability method, such as an AG or log shipping, to have redundant copies of databases. The additional method deployed should use physically separate storage from the FCI. When the FCI fails over to another node, it stops on one node and starts on another, not unlike powering a server off and turning it on. An FCI goes through the normal recovery process, meaning any transactions that need to be rolled forward will be, and any transactions that are incomplete will be rolled back. Therefore, the database is consistent from a data point to the time of the failure or manual failover, hence no data loss. Databases are only available after recovery is complete, so recovery time will depend on many factors, and will generally be longer than failing over an AG. The tradeoff is that when you fail over an AG, there may be additional tasks required to make a database usable, such as enabling a SQL Server Agent job.
Like an AG, FCIs abstract which node of the underlying cluster is hosting it. An FCI always retains the same name. Applications and end users never connect to the nodes; the unique name assigned to the FCI is used. 
An FCI can participate in an AG as one of the instances hosing either a primary or secondary replica.
The list below highlights some differences with FCIs on Windows Server versus Linux:
* * On Windows Server, an FCI is part of the installation process. An FCI on Linux is configured after installing SQL Server.
* * Linux only supports a single installation of SQL Server per host, so all FCIs will be a default instance. Windows Server supports up to 25 FCIs per WSFC.
* * The common name used by FCIs in Linux is defined in DNS, and should be the same as the resource create for the FCI.
### Log Shipping
If recovery point and recovery time objectives are more flexible, or databases are not considered to be highly mission critical, log shipping is another proven availability feature in SQL Server. Based on SQL Server’s native backups, the process for log shipping automatically generates transaction log backups, copies them to one or more instances known as a warm standby, and automatically applies the transaction log backups to that standby. Log shipping uses SQL Server Agent jobs to automate the process of backing up, copying, and applying the transaction log backups. 
 
Arguably the biggest advantage to using log shipping in some capacity is that it accounts for human error. The application of transaction logs can be delayed. Therefore, if someone issues something like an UPDATE without a WHERE clause, the standby may not have the change so you could switch to that while you repair the primary system. While log shipping is easy to configure, performing a role change to a warm standby is always manual, must be done via Transact-SQL, and like an AG, all objects not captured in the transaction log must be manually synchronized. Log shipping also needs to be configured per database, whereas a single AG can contain multiple databases. 
Log shipping also has no abstraction for the server switch like FCIs or the listener in an AG. Applications must be able to handle this. Techniques such as a DNS alias (CNAME) could be employed, but there are pros and cons, such as the time it takes for DNS to refresh after the switch.
## Disaster Recovery
When your primary availability location experiences a catastrophic event like an earthquake or flood, the business must be prepared to have its systems come online elsewhere. This section will cover how the SQL Server availability features can assist with business continuity.
### Always On Availability Groups
One of the benefits of AGs is that both high availability and disaster recovery can be configured using a single feature. Without the requirement for ensuring that shared storage is also highly available, it is much easier to have replicas that are local in one data center for high availability, and remote ones in other data centers for disaster recovery each with separate storage. Having additional copies of the database is the tradeoff for ensuring redundancy. An example of an AG that spans multiple data centers is shown below. One primary replica is responsible for keeping all secondary replicas synchronized.
 
Outside of an AG with a cluster type of none, an AG requires that all replicas are part of the same underlying cluster whether it is a WSFC or Pacemaker. This means that in the picture above, the WSFC is stretched to work in two different data centers which adds complexity. regardless of the platform (Windows Server or Linux). Stretching clusters across distance adds complexity. 
Introduced in SQL Server 2016, a distributed AG allows an AG to span AGs configured on different clusters. This decouples the requirement to have the nodes all participate in the same cluster, which makes configuring disaster recovery much easier. For more information on distributed AGs, see the official documentation.
 
### Always On Failover Cluster Instances
FCIs can be used for disaster recovery. As with a normal AG, the underlying cluster mechanism must also be extended to all locations which adds complexity. There is an additional consideration for FCIs: the shared storage. The same disks need to be available in the primary and secondary sites, so an external method such as functionality provided by the storage vendor at the hardware layer or using Storage Replica in Windows Server, is required to ensure that the disks used by the FCI exist elsewhere. 
 
### Log Shipping
Log shipping is one of the oldest methods of providing disaster recovery for SQL Server databases. Log shipping is often used in conjunction with AGs and FCIs to provide cost-effective and simpler disaster recovery where other options may be challenging due to environment, administrative skills, or budget. Similar to the high availability story for log shipping, many environments will delay the loading of a transaction log to account for human error.
## Migrations and Upgrades
When deploying new instances or upgrading old ones, a business cannot tolerate long outages. This section will discuss how the availability features of SQL Server can be used to minimize the downtime in a planned architecture change, server switch, platform change (such as Windows Server to Linux or vice versa), or during patching.
NOTE Other methods, such as using backups and restoring them elsewhere, can also be used for migrations and upgrades. They are not discussed in this paper. 
### Always On Availability Groups
An existing instance containing one or more AGs can be upgraded in place to SQL Server 2017. While this will require some amount of downtime, with the right amount of planning, it can be minimized. 
If the goal is to migrate to new servers and not change the configuration (including the operating system or SQL Server version), those servers could be added as nodes to the existing underlying cluster and added to the AG. Once the replica or replicas are in the right state, a manual failover could occur to a new server, and then the old ones could be removed from the AG, and ultimately, decommissioned. 
Distributed AGs are also another method to migrate to a new configuration or upgrade SQL Server. Because a distributed AG supports different underlying AGs on different architectures, for example, you could change from SQL Server 2016 running on Windows Server 2012 R2 to SQL Server 2017 running on Windows Sever 2016.
 
Finally, AGs with a cluster type of None can also be used for migration or upgrading. You cannot mix and match cluster types in a typical AG configuration, so all replicas would need to be a type of None. A distributed AG can be used to span AGs configured with different cluster types. This method is also supported across the different OS platforms.
All variants of AGs for migrations and upgrades allow the most time consuming portion of the work to be done over time – data synchronization. When it comes time to initiate the switch to the new configuration, the cutover will be a brief outage versus one long period of downtime where all the work, including data synchronization, would need to be completed. 
AGs can provide minimal downtime during patching of the underlying OS by manually failing over the primary to a secondary replica while the patching is being completed. From an operating system perspective, doing this would be more common on Windows Server since often, but not always, servicing the underlying OS may require a reboot. Patching Linux sometimes needs a reboot, but it can be infrequent. 
Patching SQL Server instances participating in an AG can also minimize downtime depending on how complex the AG architecture is. To patch servers participating in an AG, the secondary replicas are patched first. Once at least 50% of the replicas are patched, fail the primary replica to another node to do the upgrade, and then patch the rest of the secondary replicas. 
### Always On Failover Cluster Instances
FCIs on their own cannot assist with a traditional migration or upgrade; an AG or log shipping would have to be configured for the databases in the FCI and all other objects accounted for. However, FCIs under Windows Server are still a popular option for when the underlying Windows Servers need to be patched. A manual failover can be initiated, which means a brief outage instead of having the instance completely unavailable for the entire time Windows Server is being patched.
### Log Shipping
Log shipping is still a popular option to both migrate and upgrade databases. Similar to AGs, but this time using the transaction log as the synchronization method, the data propagation can be started well in advance of the server switch. At the time of the switch, once all traffic is stopped at the source, a final transaction log would need to be taken, copied, and applied to the new configuration. At that point, the database can be brought online. Log shipping is often more tolerant of slower networks, and while the switch may be slightly longer than one done using an AG or a distributed AG, it is usually measured in minutes – not hours, days, or weeks.
Also similar to AGs, log shipping can provide a way to switch to another server in the event of patching.
## Other SQL Server Deployment Methods and Availability
There are two other deployment methods for SQL Server on Linux: containers and using Azure (or another public cloud provider). The general need for availability as presented throughout this paper exists regardless of how SQL Server is deployed. These two methods have some special considerations when it comes to making SQL Server highly available.
Containers using Docker are a new way of deploying SQL Server, either for Windows Server or Linux. A container is a complete image of SQL Server that is ready to run. However, there is currently no native support for clustering, and thus, direct high availability or disaster recovery. Currently, the options to make SQL Server databases available using containers would be log shipping and backup and restore. While an AG with a cluster type of None can be configured, as noted earlier, it is not considered a true availability configuration. Microsoft is looking at ways to enable AGs or FCIs using containers. 
If you are using containers today, if the container is lost, depending on the container platform, it can be deployed again and attached to the shared storage that was used. While this does provide some resiliency, there will be some downtime associated with database recovery and is not truly highly available as it would be if using an AG or FCI. 
Linux IaaS virtual machines can be deployed with SQL Server installed using Azure. As with on premises-based installations, a supported installation requires the use of STONITH (Shoot the Other Node in the Head) which is external to Pacemaker itself. STONITH is provided via fencing agents. Some distributions ship them as part of the platform, others rely on external hardware and software vendors. Check with your preferred Linux distribution to see what forms of STONITH are provided so that a supported solution can be deployed in the public cloud.
## Cross-Platform and Linux Distribution Interoperability
With SQL Server now supported on both Windows Server and Linux, this section covers the scenarios of how they can work together for availability in addition to other purposes, as well as the story for solutions that will incorporate more than one Linux distribution.
Before covering the cross-platform and interoperability scenarios, two facts need to be stated:
* There are no scenarios where a WSFC-based FCI or AG will work with a Linux-based FCI or AG directly. A WSFC cannot be extended by a Pacemaker node and vice versa. 
Mixing Linux distributions is not supported with FCIs or an AG that has a cluster type of External. All AG replicas in that scenario must be configured not only the same Linux distribution, but also the same version. The two supported ways that SQL Server can operate across the two platforms or multiple distributions of Linux are AGs and log shipping.
### Always On Availability Groups 
Distributed AGs are designed to span AG configurations, whether those two underlying clusters underneath the AGs are two different WSFCs, Linux distributions, or one on a WSFC and the other on Linux. A distributed AG will be the primary method of having a cross platform solution. A distributed AG is also the primary solution for migrations such as converting from a Windows Server-based SQL Server infrastructure to a Linux-based one if that is what your company wants to do. As noted above, AGs, and especially distributed AGs, would minimize the time that an application would be unavailable for use. An example of a distributed AG that spans a WSFC and Pacemaker is shown below.
 
If an AG is configured with a cluster type of None, it can span Windows Server and Linux as well as multiple Linux distributions. Since this is not a true high availability configuration, it should not be used for mission critical deployments, but for read-scale or migration/upgrade scenarios.
### Log Shipping
Since log shipping is just based on backup and restore, and there are no differences in the databases, file structures, etc., for SQL Server on Windows Server versus SQL Server on Linux. This means that log shipping can be configured between a Windows Server-based SQL Server installation and a Linux one as well as between distributions of Linux. Everything else remains the same. The only caveat is that log shipping, just like an AG, cannot work when the source is at a higher SQL Server major version against a target that is at a lower version of SQL Server. 
## Read Scale Out
Since their introduction in SQL Server 2012, secondary replicas have had the ability to be used for read-only queries. There are two ways that can be achieved with an AG: by allowing direct access to the secondary as well as configuring read only routing which requires the use of the listener.  SQL Server 2016 introduced the ability to load balance read-only connections via the listener using a round robin algorithm, allowing read-only requests to be spread across all readable replicas. 
NOTE Readable secondary replicas is a feature only in Enterprise Edition, and each instance hosting a readable replica would need a SQL Server license.
Scaling readable copies of a database via AGs was first introduced with distributed AGs in SQL Server 2016. This would allow companies to have read-only copies of the database not only locally, but regionally and globally with a minimal amount of configuration and reduce network traffic and latency by having queries executed locally. Each primary replica of an AG can seed two other AGs even if it is not the fully read/write copy, so each distributed AG can support up to 27 copies of the data that are readable. 
<Mike – cascading pic for distributed AGs should go here>
Starting with SQL Server 2017, It is possible to create a near-real time, read-only solution with AGs configured with a cluster type of None. If the goal is to use AGs for readable secondary replicas and not availability, doing this removes the complexity of using a WSFC or Pacemaker, and gives the readable benefits of an AG in a simpler deployment method. 
The only major caveat is that due to no underlying cluster with a cluster type of None, configuring read only routing is a little different. In this architecture, the IP address of the primary replica is used, and its name can be resolved via DNS. The primary replica is then used to route the read only requests.
A log shipping warm standby can technically be configured for readable usage by restoring the database WITH STANDBY. However, because the transaction logs require exclusive use of the database for restoration, it means that users cannot be accessing the database while that happens. This makes log shipping a less than ideal solution – especially if near real-time data is required. 
One thing that should be noted for all read scale out scenarios with AGs is that unlike using transactional replication where all of the data is live, each secondary replica is not in a state where unique indexes can be applied, the replica is an exact copy of the primary. This means that if any indexes are required for reporting or data needs to be manipulated, it must be done there. If you need that flexibility, replication is a better solution for readable data.
## Summary
Whether you choose to deploy SQL Server 2017 on Windows Server or Linux, instances and databases can be made highly available using the same features. Besides standard availability scenarios of local high availability and disaster recovery, downtime associated with upgrades and migrations can be minimized with the availability features in SQL Server. AGs can also provide additional copies of a database as part of the same architecture to scale out readable copies. So whether you are deploying a new solution using SQL Server 2017 or considering an upgrade, SQL Server 2017 has the availability and reliability you require.
 
