docs/includes/paragraph-content/sql-server-editions.md, before:

---
author: rwestMSFT
ms.author: randolphwest
ms.date: 07/05/2023
ms.service: sql-database
ms.topic: include
---
The following table describes the editions of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)].

| Edition | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Enterprise | The premium offering, [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Enterprise edition delivers comprehensive high-end datacenter capabilities with blazing-fast performance, unlimited virtualization <sup>1</sup>, and end-to-end business intelligence, enabling high service levels for mission-critical workloads and end-user access to data insights. <br /><br /> Enterprise edition is available for evaluation. An evaluation deployment is available for 180 days. Review the version specific licensing guide for details. |
| Standard | [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Standard edition delivers basic data management and business intelligence database for departments and small organizations to run their applications and supports common development tools for on-premises and cloud, enabling effective database management with minimal IT resources. |
| Web | [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Web edition is a low total-cost-of-ownership option for Web hosters (including choosing Web edition on IaaS on Azure) and Web VAPs to provide scalability, affordability, and manageability capabilities for small to large-scale Web properties. |
| Developer | [!INCLUDE [ssdeveloper-md](../ssdeveloper-md.md)] edition lets developers build any kind of application on top of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)]. It includes all the functionality of Enterprise edition, but is licensed for use as a development and test system, not as a production server. [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Developer is an ideal choice for people who build and test applications. |
| Express edition | [!INCLUDE [ssexpress-md](../ssexpress-md.md)] edition is the entry-level, free database and is ideal for learning and building desktop and small server data-driven applications. It is the best choice for independent software vendors, developers, and hobbyists building client applications. If you need more advanced database features, [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Express can be seamlessly upgraded to other higher end versions of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)]. [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Express LocalDB is a lightweight version of Express edition that has all of its programmability features, runs in user mode and has a fast, zero-configuration installation and a short list of prerequisites. |

<sup>1</sup> Unlimited virtualization is available on Enterprise edition for customers with [Software Assurance](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/licensing-programs/software-assurance-default). Deployments must comply with the licensing guide. For more information, see our pricing and licensing page.

Commit message:

Replace references to SQL Server 2019 and older license guides

docs/includes/paragraph-content/sql-server-editions.md, after:

---
author: rwestMSFT
ms.author: randolphwest
ms.date: 07/05/2023
ms.service: sql-database
ms.topic: include
---
The following table describes the editions of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)].

| Edition | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Enterprise | The premium offering, [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Enterprise edition delivers comprehensive high-end datacenter capabilities with blazing-fast performance, unlimited virtualization <sup>1</sup>, and end-to-end business intelligence, enabling high service levels for mission-critical workloads and end-user access to data insights. <br /><br /> Enterprise edition is available for evaluation. An evaluation deployment is available for 180 days. For more information, see [SQL Server Licensing Resources and Documents](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/docs/view/SQL-Server). |
| Standard | [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Standard edition delivers basic data management and business intelligence database for departments and small organizations to run their applications and supports common development tools for on-premises and cloud, enabling effective database management with minimal IT resources. |
| Web | [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Web edition is a low total-cost-of-ownership option for Web hosters (including choosing Web edition on IaaS on Azure) and Web VAPs to provide scalability, affordability, and manageability capabilities for small to large-scale Web properties. |
| Developer | [!INCLUDE [ssdeveloper-md](../ssdeveloper-md.md)] edition lets developers build any kind of application on top of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)]. It includes all the functionality of Enterprise edition, but is licensed for use as a development and test system, not as a production server. [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Developer is an ideal choice for people who build and test applications. |
| Express edition | [!INCLUDE [ssexpress-md](../ssexpress-md.md)] edition is the entry-level, free database and is ideal for learning and building desktop and small server data-driven applications. It is the best choice for independent software vendors, developers, and hobbyists building client applications. If you need more advanced database features, [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Express can be seamlessly upgraded to other higher end versions of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)]. [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../ssnoversion-md.md)] Express LocalDB is a lightweight version of Express edition that has all of its programmability features, runs in user mode and has a fast, zero-configuration installation and a short list of prerequisites. |

<sup>1</sup> Unlimited virtualization is available on Enterprise edition for customers with [Software Assurance](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/licensing-programs/software-assurance-default). Deployments must comply with the licensing guide. For more information, see [SQL Server Licensing Resources and Documents](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/docs/view/SQL-Server).
