docs/relational-databases/security/authentication-access/database-level-roles.md, before:

---
title: "Database-Level Roles | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 01/19/2019
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine, sql-database, sql-data-warehouse, pdw"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: security
ms.topic: conceptual
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql13.swb.roleproperties.database.f1"
  - "sql13.swb.roleproperties.object.f1"
  - "SQL13.SWB.DBROLEPROPERTIES.GENERAL.F1"
  - "sql13.swb.roleproperties.general.f1"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "db_denydatareader role"
  - "users [SQL Server], database roles"
  - "database-level roles [SQL Server]"
  - "db_denydatawriter role"
  - "roles [SQL Server], database"
  - "principals [SQL Server], database-level"
  - "db_backupoperator role"
  - "credentials [SQL Server], roles"
  - "db_accessadmin role"
  - "schemas [SQL Server], roles"
  - "permissions [SQL Server], roles"
  - "database roles [SQL Server], listed"
  - "db_datareader role"
  - "db_ddladmin role"
  - "db_datawriter role"
  - "db_securityadmin role"
  - "db_owner role"
  - "database roles [SQL Server]"
  - "fixed database roles [SQL Server]"
  - "authentication [SQL Server], roles"
  - "groups [SQL Server], roles"
ms.assetid: 7f3fa5f6-6b50-43bb-9047-1544ade55e39
author: VanMSFT
ms.author: vanto
manager: craigg
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016||=azuresqldb-current||=azure-sqldw-latest||>=sql-server-2016||=sqlallproducts-allversions||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# Database-Level Roles

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-ss-asdb-asdw-pdw-md](../../../includes/appliesto-ss-asdb-asdw-pdw-md.md)]

  To easily manage the permissions in your databases, [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] provides several *roles* which are security principals that group other principals. They are like ***groups*** in the [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../../includes/msconame-md.md)] Windows operating system. Database-level roles are database-wide in their permissions scope.  

To add and remove users to a database role, use the `ADD MEMBER` and `DROP MEMBER` options of the [ALTER ROLE](../../../t-sql/statements/alter-role-transact-sql.md) statement. [!INCLUDE[ssPDW_md](../../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] does not support this use of `ALTER ROLE`. Use the older [sp_addrolemember](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-addrolemember-transact-sql.md) and [sp_droprolemember](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-droprolemember-transact-sql.md) procedures instead.
  
 There are two types of database-level roles: *fixed-database roles* that are predefined in the database and *user-defined database roles* that you can create.  
  
 Fixed-database roles are defined at the database level and exist in each database. Members of the **db_owner** database role can manage fixed-database role membership. There are also some special-purpose database roles in the msdb database.  
  
 You can add any database account and other [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] roles into database-level roles. Each member of a fixed-database role can add other users to that same role.  
  
> [!TIP]  
>  Do not add user-defined database roles as members of fixed roles. This could enable unintended privilege escalation.  

The permissions of user-defined database roles can be customized by using the GRANT, DENY, and REVOKE statements. For more information, see [Permissions (Database Engine)](../../../relational-databases/security/permissions-database-engine.md).

For a list of all the permissions, see the [Database Engine Permissions](https://aka.ms/sql-permissions-poster) poster. (Server-level permissions cannot be granted to database roles. Logins and other server-level principals (such as server roles) cannot be added to database roles. For server-level security in [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion_md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], use [server roles](../../../relational-databases/security/authentication-access/server-level-roles.md) instead. Server-level permissions cannot be granted through roles in [!INCLUDE[ssSDS_md](../../../includes/sssds-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssSDW_md](../../../includes/sssdw-md.md)].)

## Fixed-Database Roles
  
 The following table shows the fixed-database roles and their capabilities. These roles exist in all databases. Except for the **public** database role, the permissions assigned to the fixed-database roles cannot be changed.   
  
|Fixed-Database role name|Description|  
|-------------------------------|-----------------|  
|**db_owner**|Members of the **db_owner** fixed database role can perform all configuration and maintenance activities on the database, and can also drop the database in [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion_md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. (In [!INCLUDE[ssSDS_md](../../../includes/sssds-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssSDW_md](../../../includes/sssdw-md.md)], some maintenance activities require server-level permissions and cannot be performed by **db_owners**.)|  
|**db_securityadmin**|Members of the **db_securityadmin** fixed database role can modify role membership and manage permissions. Adding principals to this role could enable unintended privilege escalation.|  
|**db_accessadmin**|Members of the **db_accessadmin** fixed database role can add or remove access to the database for Windows logins, Windows groups, and [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] logins.|  
|**db_backupoperator**|Members of the **db_backupoperator** fixed database role can back up the database.|  
|**db_ddladmin**|Members of the **db_ddladmin** fixed database role can run any Data Definition Language (DDL) command in a database.|  
|**db_datawriter**|Members of the **db_datawriter** fixed database role can add, delete, or change data in all user tables.|  
|**db_datareader**|Members of the **db_datareader** fixed database role can read all data from all user tables.|  
|**db_denydatawriter**|Members of the **db_denydatawriter** fixed database role cannot add, modify, or delete any data in the user tables within a database.|  
|**db_denydatareader**|Members of the **db_denydatareader** fixed database role cannot read any data in the user tables within a database.|  

The permissions assigned to the fixed-database roles cannot be changed. The following figure shows the permissions assigned to the fixed-database roles:

![fixed_database_role_permissions](../../../relational-databases/security/authentication-access/media/permissions-of-database-roles.png)

## Special Roles for [!INCLUDE[ssSDS_md](../../../includes/sssds-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssSDW_md](../../../includes/sssdw-md.md)]

These database roles exist only in the virtual master database. Their permissions are restricted to actions performed in master. Only database users in master can be added to these roles. Logins cannot be added to these roles, but users can be created based on logins and then those users can be added to the roles. Contained database users in master, can also be added to these roles.

|Role name|Description|  
|--------------------|-----------------|
|**dbmanager** | Can create and delete databases. A member of the dbmanager role that creates a database, becomes the owner of that database which allows that user to connect to that database as the dbo user. The dbo user has all database permissions in the database. Members of the dbmanager role do not necessarily have permission to access databases that they do not own.|
|**loginmanager** | Can create and delete logins in the virtual master database.|

> [!NOTE]
> The server-level principal and the Azure Active Directory Administrator (if configured) have all permissions in the [!INCLUDE[ssSDS_md](../../../includes/sssds-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssSDW_md](../../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] without needing to be members of any roles. For more information, see [SQL Database Authentication and Authorization: Granting Access](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/sql-database-manage-logins/). 
  
## msdb Roles  
 The msdb database contains the special-purpose roles that are shown in the following table.  
  
|msdb role name|Description|  
|--------------------|-----------------|  
|**db_ssisadmin**<br /><br /> **db_ssisoperator**<br /><br /> **db_ssisltduser**|Members of these database roles can administer and use [!INCLUDE[ssIS](../../../includes/ssis-md.md)]. Instances of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] that are upgraded from an earlier version might contain an older version of the role that was named using Data Transformation Services (DTS) instead of [!INCLUDE[ssIS](../../../includes/ssis-md.md)]. For more information, see [Integration Services Roles &#40;SSIS Service&#41;](../../../integration-services/security/integration-services-roles-ssis-service.md).|  
|**dc_admin**<br /><br /> **dc_operator**<br /><br /> **dc_proxy**|Members of these database roles can administer and use the data collector. For more information, see [Data Collection](../../../relational-databases/data-collection/data-collection.md).|  
|**PolicyAdministratorRole**|Members of the **db_ PolicyAdministratorRole** database role can perform all configuration and maintenance activities on Policy-Based Management policies and conditions. For more information, see [Administer Servers by Using Policy-Based Management](../../../relational-databases/policy-based-management/administer-servers-by-using-policy-based-management.md).|  
|**ServerGroupAdministratorRole**<br /><br /> **ServerGroupReaderRole**|Members of these database roles can administer and use registered server groups.|  
|**dbm_monitor**|Created in the **msdb** database when the first database is registered in Database Mirroring Monitor. The **dbm_monitor** role has no members until a system administrator assigns users to the role.|  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
>  Members of the **db_ssisadmin** role and the **dc_admin** role may be able to elevate their privileges to sysadmin. This elevation of privilege can occur because these roles can modify [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../../../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] packages and [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../../../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] packages can be executed by [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using the sysadmin security context of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Agent. To guard against this elevation of privilege when running maintenance plans, data collection sets, and other [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../../../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] packages, configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Agent jobs that run packages to use a proxy account with limited privileges or only add **sysadmin** members to the **db_ssisadmin** and **dc_admin** roles.  

## Working with R Services  

**Applies to:** SQL Server starting with [!INCLUDE[ssSQLv14_md](../../../includes/sssqlv14-md.md)]   

When R Services is installed, additional database roles are available for managing packages. For more information, see [R Package management for SQL Server](../../../advanced-analytics/r-services/r-package-management-for-sql-server-r-services.md).

|Role name |Description|  
|-------------|-----------------|
|**rpkgs-users** |Allows users to use any shared packages that were installed by members of the rpkgs-shared role.|
|**rpkgs-private** |Provides access to shared packages with the same permissions as the rpkgs-users role. Members of this role can also install, remove and use privately scoped packages.|
|**rpkgs-shared** |Provides the same permissions as the rpkgs-private role. Users who are members of this role can also install or remove shared packages.|
  
## Working with Database-Level Roles  
 The following table explains the commands, views and functions for working with database-level roles.  
  
|Feature|Type|Description|  
|-------------|----------|-----------------|  
|[sp_helpdbfixedrole &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-helpdbfixedrole-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Returns a list of the fixed database roles.|  
|[sp_dbfixedrolepermission &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-dbfixedrolepermission-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Displays the permissions of a fixed database role.|  
|[sp_helprole &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-helprole-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Returns information about the roles in the current database.|  
|[sp_helprolemember &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-helprolemember-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Returns information about the members of a role in the current database.|  
|[sys.database_role_members &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-database-role-members-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Returns one row for each member of each database role.|  
|[IS_MEMBER &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/functions/is-member-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Indicates whether the current user is a member of the specified Microsoft Windows group or Microsoft SQL Server database role.|  
|[CREATE ROLE &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/statements/create-role-transact-sql.md)|Command|Creates a new database role in the current database.|  
|[ALTER ROLE &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/statements/alter-role-transact-sql.md)|Command|Changes the name or membership of a database role.|  
|[DROP ROLE &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/statements/drop-role-transact-sql.md)|Command|Removes a role from the database.|  
|[sp_addrole &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-addrole-transact-sql.md)|Command|Creates a new database role in the current database.|  
|[sp_droprole &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-droprole-transact-sql.md)|Command|Removes a database role from the current database.|  
|[sp_addrolemember &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-addrolemember-transact-sql.md)|Command|Adds a database user, database role, Windows login, or Windows group to a database role in the current database. All platforms except [!INCLUDE[ssPDW_md](../../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] should use `ALTER ROLE` instead.|  
|[sp_droprolemember &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-droprolemember-transact-sql.md)|Command|Removes a security account from a SQL Server role in the current database. All platforms except [!INCLUDE[ssPDW_md](../../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] should use `ALTER ROLE` instead.|
|[GRANT](../../../t-sql/statements/grant-transact-sql.md)| Permissions | Adds permission to a role.
|[DENY](../../../t-sql/statements/deny-transact-sql.md)| Permissions | Denys a permission to a role.
|[REVOKE](../../../t-sql/statements/revoke-transact-sql.md)| Permissions | Removes a previously granted or denied permissions.
  
  
## public Database Role  
 Every database user belongs to the **public** database role. When a user has not been granted or denied specific permissions on a securable object, the user inherits the permissions granted to **public** on that object. Database users cannot be removed from the **public** role. 
  
## Related Content  
 [Security Catalog Views &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/security-catalog-views-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [Security Stored Procedures &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/security-stored-procedures-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [Security Functions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/functions/security-functions-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [Securing SQL Server](../../../relational-databases/security/securing-sql-server.md)  
  
 [sp_helprotect &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-helprotect-transact-sql.md)

Commit message:

corrected parts on db_securityadmin and custom roles permissions
Line 55 
removed: Each member of a fixed-database role can add other users to that same role.
- this is incorrect
changed line 71 on db_securityadmin:
new: fixed database role can modify role membership for custom roles only, create users without logins and manage permissions.

docs/relational-databases/security/authentication-access/database-level-roles.md, after:

---
title: "Database-Level Roles | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 01/19/2019
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine, sql-database, sql-data-warehouse, pdw"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: security
ms.topic: conceptual
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql13.swb.roleproperties.database.f1"
  - "sql13.swb.roleproperties.object.f1"
  - "SQL13.SWB.DBROLEPROPERTIES.GENERAL.F1"
  - "sql13.swb.roleproperties.general.f1"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "db_denydatareader role"
  - "users [SQL Server], database roles"
  - "database-level roles [SQL Server]"
  - "db_denydatawriter role"
  - "roles [SQL Server], database"
  - "principals [SQL Server], database-level"
  - "db_backupoperator role"
  - "credentials [SQL Server], roles"
  - "db_accessadmin role"
  - "schemas [SQL Server], roles"
  - "permissions [SQL Server], roles"
  - "database roles [SQL Server], listed"
  - "db_datareader role"
  - "db_ddladmin role"
  - "db_datawriter role"
  - "db_securityadmin role"
  - "db_owner role"
  - "database roles [SQL Server]"
  - "fixed database roles [SQL Server]"
  - "authentication [SQL Server], roles"
  - "groups [SQL Server], roles"
ms.assetid: 7f3fa5f6-6b50-43bb-9047-1544ade55e39
author: VanMSFT
ms.author: vanto
manager: craigg
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016||=azuresqldb-current||=azure-sqldw-latest||>=sql-server-2016||=sqlallproducts-allversions||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# Database-Level Roles

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-ss-asdb-asdw-pdw-md](../../../includes/appliesto-ss-asdb-asdw-pdw-md.md)]

  To easily manage the permissions in your databases, [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] provides several *roles* which are security principals that group other principals. They are like ***groups*** in the [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../../includes/msconame-md.md)] Windows operating system. Database-level roles are database-wide in their permissions scope.  

To add and remove users to a database role, use the `ADD MEMBER` and `DROP MEMBER` options of the [ALTER ROLE](../../../t-sql/statements/alter-role-transact-sql.md) statement. [!INCLUDE[ssPDW_md](../../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] does not support this use of `ALTER ROLE`. Use the older [sp_addrolemember](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-addrolemember-transact-sql.md) and [sp_droprolemember](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-droprolemember-transact-sql.md) procedures instead.
  
 There are two types of database-level roles: *fixed-database roles* that are predefined in the database and *user-defined database roles* that you can create.  
  
 Fixed-database roles are defined at the database level and exist in each database. Members of the **db_owner** database role can manage fixed-database role membership. There are also some special-purpose database roles in the msdb database.  
  
 You can add any database account and other [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] roles into database-level roles.
  
> [!TIP]  
>  Do not add user-defined database roles as members of fixed roles. This could enable unintended privilege escalation.  

The permissions of user-defined database roles can be customized by using the GRANT, DENY, and REVOKE statements. For more information, see [Permissions (Database Engine)](../../../relational-databases/security/permissions-database-engine.md).

For a list of all the permissions, see the [Database Engine Permissions](https://aka.ms/sql-permissions-poster) poster. (Server-level permissions cannot be granted to database roles. Logins and other server-level principals (such as server roles) cannot be added to database roles. For server-level security in [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion_md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], use [server roles](../../../relational-databases/security/authentication-access/server-level-roles.md) instead. Server-level permissions cannot be granted through roles in [!INCLUDE[ssSDS_md](../../../includes/sssds-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssSDW_md](../../../includes/sssdw-md.md)].)

## Fixed-Database Roles
  
 The following table shows the fixed-database roles and their capabilities. These roles exist in all databases. Except for the **public** database role, the permissions assigned to the fixed-database roles cannot be changed.   
  
|Fixed-Database role name|Description|  
|-------------------------------|-----------------|  
|**db_owner**|Members of the **db_owner** fixed database role can perform all configuration and maintenance activities on the database, and can also drop the database in [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion_md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. (In [!INCLUDE[ssSDS_md](../../../includes/sssds-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssSDW_md](../../../includes/sssdw-md.md)], some maintenance activities require server-level permissions and cannot be performed by **db_owners**.)|  
|**db_securityadmin**|Members of the **db_securityadmin** fixed database role can modify role membership for custom roles only, create users without logins and manage permissions. Adding principals to this role could enable unintended privilege escalation.|  
|**db_accessadmin**|Members of the **db_accessadmin** fixed database role can add or remove access to the database for Windows logins, Windows groups, and [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] logins.|  
|**db_backupoperator**|Members of the **db_backupoperator** fixed database role can back up the database.|  
|**db_ddladmin**|Members of the **db_ddladmin** fixed database role can run any Data Definition Language (DDL) command in a database.|  
|**db_datawriter**|Members of the **db_datawriter** fixed database role can add, delete, or change data in all user tables.|  
|**db_datareader**|Members of the **db_datareader** fixed database role can read all data from all user tables.|  
|**db_denydatawriter**|Members of the **db_denydatawriter** fixed database role cannot add, modify, or delete any data in the user tables within a database.|  
|**db_denydatareader**|Members of the **db_denydatareader** fixed database role cannot read any data in the user tables within a database.|  

The permissions assigned to the fixed-database roles cannot be changed. The following figure shows the permissions assigned to the fixed-database roles:

![fixed_database_role_permissions](../../../relational-databases/security/authentication-access/media/permissions-of-database-roles.png)

## Special Roles for [!INCLUDE[ssSDS_md](../../../includes/sssds-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssSDW_md](../../../includes/sssdw-md.md)]

These database roles exist only in the virtual master database. Their permissions are restricted to actions performed in master. Only database users in master can be added to these roles. Logins cannot be added to these roles, but users can be created based on logins and then those users can be added to the roles. Contained database users in master, can also be added to these roles.

|Role name|Description|  
|--------------------|-----------------|
|**dbmanager** | Can create and delete databases. A member of the dbmanager role that creates a database, becomes the owner of that database which allows that user to connect to that database as the dbo user. The dbo user has all database permissions in the database. Members of the dbmanager role do not necessarily have permission to access databases that they do not own.|
|**loginmanager** | Can create and delete logins in the virtual master database.|

> [!NOTE]
> The server-level principal and the Azure Active Directory Administrator (if configured) have all permissions in the [!INCLUDE[ssSDS_md](../../../includes/sssds-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssSDW_md](../../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] without needing to be members of any roles. For more information, see [SQL Database Authentication and Authorization: Granting Access](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/sql-database-manage-logins/). 
  
## msdb Roles  
 The msdb database contains the special-purpose roles that are shown in the following table.  
  
|msdb role name|Description|  
|--------------------|-----------------|  
|**db_ssisadmin**<br /><br /> **db_ssisoperator**<br /><br /> **db_ssisltduser**|Members of these database roles can administer and use [!INCLUDE[ssIS](../../../includes/ssis-md.md)]. Instances of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] that are upgraded from an earlier version might contain an older version of the role that was named using Data Transformation Services (DTS) instead of [!INCLUDE[ssIS](../../../includes/ssis-md.md)]. For more information, see [Integration Services Roles &#40;SSIS Service&#41;](../../../integration-services/security/integration-services-roles-ssis-service.md).|  
|**dc_admin**<br /><br /> **dc_operator**<br /><br /> **dc_proxy**|Members of these database roles can administer and use the data collector. For more information, see [Data Collection](../../../relational-databases/data-collection/data-collection.md).|  
|**PolicyAdministratorRole**|Members of the **db_ PolicyAdministratorRole** database role can perform all configuration and maintenance activities on Policy-Based Management policies and conditions. For more information, see [Administer Servers by Using Policy-Based Management](../../../relational-databases/policy-based-management/administer-servers-by-using-policy-based-management.md).|  
|**ServerGroupAdministratorRole**<br /><br /> **ServerGroupReaderRole**|Members of these database roles can administer and use registered server groups.|  
|**dbm_monitor**|Created in the **msdb** database when the first database is registered in Database Mirroring Monitor. The **dbm_monitor** role has no members until a system administrator assigns users to the role.|  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
>  Members of the **db_ssisadmin** role and the **dc_admin** role may be able to elevate their privileges to sysadmin. This elevation of privilege can occur because these roles can modify [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../../../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] packages and [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../../../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] packages can be executed by [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using the sysadmin security context of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Agent. To guard against this elevation of privilege when running maintenance plans, data collection sets, and other [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../../../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] packages, configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Agent jobs that run packages to use a proxy account with limited privileges or only add **sysadmin** members to the **db_ssisadmin** and **dc_admin** roles.  

## Working with R Services  

**Applies to:** SQL Server starting with [!INCLUDE[ssSQLv14_md](../../../includes/sssqlv14-md.md)]   

When R Services is installed, additional database roles are available for managing packages. For more information, see [R Package management for SQL Server](../../../advanced-analytics/r-services/r-package-management-for-sql-server-r-services.md).

|Role name |Description|  
|-------------|-----------------|
|**rpkgs-users** |Allows users to use any shared packages that were installed by members of the rpkgs-shared role.|
|**rpkgs-private** |Provides access to shared packages with the same permissions as the rpkgs-users role. Members of this role can also install, remove and use privately scoped packages.|
|**rpkgs-shared** |Provides the same permissions as the rpkgs-private role. Users who are members of this role can also install or remove shared packages.|
  
## Working with Database-Level Roles  
 The following table explains the commands, views and functions for working with database-level roles.  
  
|Feature|Type|Description|  
|-------------|----------|-----------------|  
|[sp_helpdbfixedrole &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-helpdbfixedrole-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Returns a list of the fixed database roles.|  
|[sp_dbfixedrolepermission &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-dbfixedrolepermission-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Displays the permissions of a fixed database role.|  
|[sp_helprole &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-helprole-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Returns information about the roles in the current database.|  
|[sp_helprolemember &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-helprolemember-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Returns information about the members of a role in the current database.|  
|[sys.database_role_members &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-database-role-members-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Returns one row for each member of each database role.|  
|[IS_MEMBER &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/functions/is-member-transact-sql.md)|Metadata|Indicates whether the current user is a member of the specified Microsoft Windows group or Microsoft SQL Server database role.|  
|[CREATE ROLE &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/statements/create-role-transact-sql.md)|Command|Creates a new database role in the current database.|  
|[ALTER ROLE &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/statements/alter-role-transact-sql.md)|Command|Changes the name or membership of a database role.|  
|[DROP ROLE &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/statements/drop-role-transact-sql.md)|Command|Removes a role from the database.|  
|[sp_addrole &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-addrole-transact-sql.md)|Command|Creates a new database role in the current database.|  
|[sp_droprole &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-droprole-transact-sql.md)|Command|Removes a database role from the current database.|  
|[sp_addrolemember &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-addrolemember-transact-sql.md)|Command|Adds a database user, database role, Windows login, or Windows group to a database role in the current database. All platforms except [!INCLUDE[ssPDW_md](../../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] should use `ALTER ROLE` instead.|  
|[sp_droprolemember &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-droprolemember-transact-sql.md)|Command|Removes a security account from a SQL Server role in the current database. All platforms except [!INCLUDE[ssPDW_md](../../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] should use `ALTER ROLE` instead.|
|[GRANT](../../../t-sql/statements/grant-transact-sql.md)| Permissions | Adds permission to a role.
|[DENY](../../../t-sql/statements/deny-transact-sql.md)| Permissions | Denys a permission to a role.
|[REVOKE](../../../t-sql/statements/revoke-transact-sql.md)| Permissions | Removes a previously granted or denied permissions.
  
  
## public Database Role  
 Every database user belongs to the **public** database role. When a user has not been granted or denied specific permissions on a securable object, the user inherits the permissions granted to **public** on that object. Database users cannot be removed from the **public** role. 
  
## Related Content  
 [Security Catalog Views &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/security-catalog-views-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [Security Stored Procedures &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/security-stored-procedures-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [Security Functions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../t-sql/functions/security-functions-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [Securing SQL Server](../../../relational-databases/security/securing-sql-server.md)  
  
 [sp_helprotect &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-helprotect-transact-sql.md)
