---
description: "Call-Level Interfaces"
title: "Call-Level Interfaces | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "01/19/2017"
ms.service: sql
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.subservice: connectivity
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "SQL statements [ODBC], CLI"
  - "CLI [ODBC], using CLI"
  - "sending SQL statements to DBMS [ODBC]"
  - "SQL [ODBC], CLI"
  - "call-level interface [ODBC], using call-level interface"
ms.assetid: 42257bb6-0bf1-4533-a4ef-4a6dd2aecb18
author: David-Engel
ms.author: v-davidengel
---
# Call-Level Interfaces
The final technique for sending SQL statements to the DBMS is through a call-level interface (CLI). A call-level interface provides a library of DBMS functions that can be called by the application program. Thus, instead of trying to blend SQL with another programming language, a call-level interface is similar to the routine libraries most programmers are accustomed to using, such as the string, I/O, or math libraries in C. Note that DBMSs that support embedded SQL already have a call-level interface, the calls to which are generated by the precompiler. However, these calls are undocumented and subject to change without notice.  
  
 Call-level interfaces are commonly used in client/server architectures, in which the application program (the client) resides on one computer and the DBMS (the server) resides on a different computer. The application calls CLI functions on the local system, and those calls are sent across the network to the DBMS for processing.  
  
 A call-level interface is similar to dynamic SQL, in that SQL statements are passed to the DBMS for processing at run time, but it differs from embedded SQL as a whole in that there are no embedded SQL statements and no precompiler is required.  
  
 Using a call-level interface typically involves the following steps:  
  
1.  The application calls a CLI function to connect to the DBMS.  
  
2.  The application builds an SQL statement and places it in a buffer. It then calls one or more CLI functions to send the statement to the DBMS for preparation and execution.  
  
3.  If the statement is a SELECT statement, the application calls a CLI function to return the results in application buffers. Typically, this function returns one row or one column of data at a time.  
  
4.  The application calls a CLI function to disconnect from the DBMS.
