---
title: Updated - Database Engine docs | Microsoft Docs
description: Display snippets of updated content for recently changed in documentation, for Database Engine.
services: na
documentationcenter: ''
author: MightyPen
manager: jhubbard
editor: barbkess
ms.service: na
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.technology: database-engine
ms.custom: UpdArt.exe
ms.workload: database-engine
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.date: 12/02/2017
ms.author: genemi
---
# New and Recently Updated: Database Engine docs



Nearly every day Microsoft updates some of its existing articles on its [Docs.Microsoft.com](http://docs.microsoft.com/) documentation website. This article displays excerpts from recently updated articles. Links to new articles might also be listed.

This article is generated by a program that is rerun periodically. Occasionally an excerpt can appear with imperfect formatting, or as markdown from the source article. Images are never displayed here.

Recent updates are reported for the following date range and subject:



- *Date range of updates:* &nbsp; **2017-09-28** &nbsp; -to- &nbsp; **2017-12-02**
- *Subject area:* &nbsp; **Database Engine**.




&nbsp;

## New Articles Created Recently

The following links jump to new articles that have been added recently.


***There are no new articles to list, this time.***



&nbsp;

## Updated Articles with Excerpts

This section displays the excerpts of updates gathered from articles that have recently experienced a large update.

The excerpts displayed here appear separated from their proper semantic context. Also, sometimes an excerpt is separated from important markdown syntax that surrounds it in the actual article. Therefore these excerpts are for general guidance only. The excerpts only enable you to know whether your interests warrant taking the time to click and visit the actual article.

For these and other reasons, do not copy code from these excerpts, and do not take as exact truth any text excerpt. Instead, visit the actual article.





&nbsp;

<a name="compactupdatedlist"/>

### Compact List of Articles Updated Recently

This compact list provides links to all the updated articles that are listed in the Excerpts section.

1. [optimize for ad hoc workloads Server Configuration Option](#TitleNum_1)




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

<a name="TitleNum_1"/>

### 1. &nbsp; [optimize for ad hoc workloads Server Configuration Option](configure-windows/optimize-for-ad-hoc-workloads-server-configuration-option.md)

*Updated: 2017-11-20* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 

<!-- Source markdown line 38.  ms.author= "rickbyh".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 6ca71358f13780b930e6fd10e431d4df2bb96441 221306c4554ebd383ab68ed67cdaeca390f57106  (PR=4032  ,  Filename=optimize-for-ad-hoc-workloads-server-configuration-option.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\database-engine\configure-windows\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=7f8aebc72e7d0c8cff3990865c9f1316996a67d5) -->



**Recommendations**

If the number of single-use plans take a significant portion of ..!NCLUDE-NotShown--ssDEnoversion--../../includes/ssdenoversion-md.md)] memory in an OLTP server, and these plans are Ad-hoc plans, use this server option to decrease memory usage with these objects.
To find the number of single-use cached plans, run the following query:

```
SELECT objtype, cacheobjtype,
  AVG(usecounts) AS Avg_UseCount,
  SUM(refcounts) AS AllRefObjects,
  SUM(CAST(size_in_bytes AS bigint))/1024/1024 AS Size_MB
FROM sys.dm_exec_cached_plans
WHERE objtype = 'Adhoc' AND usecounts = 1
GROUP BY objtype, cacheobjtype;
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Setting the **optimize for ad hoc workloads** to 1 affects only new plans; plans that are already in the plan cache are unaffected.
> To affect already cached query plans immediately, the plan cache needs to be cleared using [ALTER DATABASE SCOPED CONFIGURATION CLEAR PROCEDURE_CACHE--../../t-sql/statements/alter-database-scoped-configuration-transact-sql.md), or ..!NCLUDE-NotShown--ssNoVersion--../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] has to restart.







## Similar Articles

<!--  HOW TO:
    Refresh this file's line items with the latest 'Count-in-Similars*' content.
    Then run Run-533-*.BAT
    2017-12-02  23:00pm
-->

This section lists very similar articles for recently updated articles in other subject areas, within our public GitHub.com repository: [MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs/).

#### Subject areas which do have new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (3+14): **Advanced Analytics for SQL** docs](../advanced-analytics/new-updated-advanced-analytics.md)
- [New + Updated (1+0):  **Analysis Services for SQL** docs](../analysis-services/new-updated-analysis-services.md)
- [New + Updated (87+0): **Analytics Platform System for SQL** docs](../analytics-platform-system/new-updated-analytics-platform-system.md)
- [New + Updated (5+4):  **Connect to SQL** docs](../connect/new-updated-connect.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):  **Database Engine for SQL** docs](../database-engine/new-updated-database-engine.md)
- [New + Updated (2+2):  **Integration Services for SQL** docs](../integration-services/new-updated-integration-services.md)
- [New + Updated (10+9): **Linux for SQL** docs](../linux/new-updated-linux.md)
- [New + Updated (2+4):  **Relational Databases for SQL** docs](../relational-databases/new-updated-relational-databases.md)
- [New + Updated (4+2):  **Reporting Services for SQL** docs](../reporting-services/new-updated-reporting-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):  **Samples for SQL** docs](../sample/new-updated-sample.md)
- [New + Updated (21+0): **SQL Operations Studio** docs](../sql-operations-studio/new-updated-sql-operations-studio.md)
- [New + Updated (5+1):  **Microsoft SQL Server** docs](../sql-server/new-updated-sql-server.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):  **SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)** docs](../ssdt/new-updated-ssdt.md)
- [New + Updated (1+0):  **SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA)** docs](../ssma/new-updated-ssma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):  **SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)** docs](../ssms/new-updated-ssms.md)
- [New + Updated (0+2):  **Transact-SQL** docs](../t-sql/new-updated-t-sql.md)

#### Subject areas which have no new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Migration Assistant (DMA) for SQL** docs](../dma/new-updated-dma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **ActiveX Data Objects (ADO) for SQL** docs](../ado/new-updated-ado.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Quality Services for SQL** docs](../data-quality-services/new-updated-data-quality-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Mining Extensions (DMX) for SQL** docs](../dmx/new-updated-dmx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Master Data Services (MDS) for SQL** docs](../master-data-services/new-updated-master-data-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Multidimensional Expressions (MDX) for SQL** docs](../mdx/new-updated-mdx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) for SQL** docs](../odbc/new-updated-odbc.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **PowerShell for SQL** docs](../powershell/new-updated-powershell.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Tools for SQL** docs](../tools/new-updated-tools.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **XQuery for SQL** docs](../xquery/new-updated-xquery.md)


