docs/2014/relational-databases/errors-events/errors-and-events-reference-database-engine.md, before:

---
title: "Errors and Events Reference (Database Engine) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/06/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2014"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: supportability
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "errors [SQL Server Database Engine]"
  - "Database Engine [SQL Server], errors"
  - "events [SQL Server Database Engine]"
ms.assetid: ea928535-6fd1-4738-a8ed-ffb602f3825e
author: MashaMSFT
ms.author: mathoma
manager: craigg
---
# Errors and Events Reference (Database Engine)
  The [Events and Errors Message Center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=47660) on TechNet is the primary source of information on error messages for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. It improves the customer experience when searching for information on [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] error messages, as well as other Microsoft products by enabling customers to perform full-text searches and filter results based on product, version, source, and numeric or symbolic identifier. Additionally, the new interface provides support across multiple languages. The Center will be continually updated with new troubleshooting information on frequently encountered errors.  
  
 Future enhancements to the Events and Errors Message Center will make troubleshooting content available in downloadable form, giving you access to it from a computer that is not connected to the Internet.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Database Engine Events and Errors](database-engine-events-and-errors.md0  
 Describes the format of [!INCLUDE[ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] error messages and explains how to view error messages and return error messages to applications.  
  
 Provides an explanation of [!INCLUDE[ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] error messages, possible causes, and any actions you can take to correct the problem.  
  
## External Resources  
 If you have not found the information you are looking for in the product documentation or on the Web, you can either ask a question in the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] community or request help from [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../includes/msconame-md.md)] support.  
  
 The following table links to and describes these resources.  
  
|Resource|Description|  
|--------------|-----------------|  
|[SQL Server Community](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=42455)|This site has links to newsgroups and forums monitored by the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] community. It also lists community information sources, such as blogs and Web sites. The [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] community is very helpful in answering questions, although an answer cannot be guaranteed.|  
|[SQL Server Developer Center Community](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=42456)|This site focuses on the newsgroups, forums, and other community resources that are useful to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] developers.|  
|[Microsoft Help and Support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=16419)|You can use this Web site to open a case with a [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../includes/msconame-md.md)] support professional.|

Commit message:

updated doc to match 2016 content (devo  1486078)
broken link
 Link: [Events and Errors Message Center],
 URL: "https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=47660",​

docs/2014/relational-databases/errors-events/errors-and-events-reference-database-engine.md, after:

---
title: "Errors and Events Reference (Database Engine) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/06/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2014"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: supportability
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "errors [SQL Server Database Engine]"
  - "Database Engine [SQL Server], errors"
  - "events [SQL Server Database Engine]"
ms.assetid: ea928535-6fd1-4738-a8ed-ffb602f3825e
author: MashaMSFT
ms.author: mathoma
manager: craigg
---
# Errors and Events Reference (Database Engine)

This section contains selected Database Engine error messages that need further explanation.
  
## In This Section  
 [Database Engine Events and Errors](database-engine-events-and-errors.md)
 Describes the format of [!INCLUDE[ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] error messages and explains how to view error messages and return error messages to applications.  
  
 Provides an explanation of [!INCLUDE[ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] error messages, possible causes, and any actions you can take to correct the problem.  
  
## External Resources  
 If you have not found the information you are looking for in the product documentation or on the Web, you can either ask a question in the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] community or request help from [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../includes/msconame-md.md)] support.  
  
 The following table links to and describes these resources.  
  
|Resource|Description|  
|--------------|-----------------|  
|[SQL Server Community](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=42455)|This site has links to newsgroups and forums monitored by the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] community. It also lists community information sources, such as blogs and Web sites. The [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] community is very helpful in answering questions, although an answer cannot be guaranteed.|  
|[SQL Server Developer Center Community](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=42456)|This site focuses on the newsgroups, forums, and other community resources that are useful to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] developers.|  
|[Microsoft Help and Support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=16419)|You can use this Web site to open a case with a [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../includes/msconame-md.md)] support professional.|
