---
title: Updated - Sample for SQL Server docs | Microsoft Docs
description: Display snippets of updated content for recently changed in documentation, for Sample for Microsoft SQL Server.
services: na
documentationcenter: ''
author: MightyPen
manager: jhubbard
editor: ''
ms.service: ""
ms.component: "samples"
ms.suite: "sql"
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.technology: database-engine
ms.custom: UpdArt.exe
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.date: 09/27/2017
ms.prod: "sql-non-specified"
ms.prod_service: "sql-non-specified"
ms.author: genemi
ms.workload: sample
---
# New and Recently Updated: Sample for SQL Server



Nearly every day Microsoft updates some of its existing articles on its [Docs.Microsoft.com](http://docs.microsoft.com/) documentation website. This article displays excerpts from recently updated articles. Links to new articles might also be listed.

This article is generated by a program that is rerun periodically. Occasionally an excerpt can appear with imperfect formatting, or as markdown from the source article. Images are never displayed here.

Recent updates are reported for the following date range and subject:



- *Date range of updates:* &nbsp; **2017-09-28** &nbsp; -to- &nbsp; **2017-12-02**
- *Subject area:* &nbsp; **Sample for SQL Server**.




&nbsp;

## New Articles Created Recently

The following links jump to new articles that have been added recently.


***There are no new articles to list, this time.***



&nbsp;

## Updated Articles with Excerpts

This section displays the excerpts of updates gathered from articles that have recently experienced a large update.

The excerpts displayed here appear separated from their proper semantic context. Also, sometimes an excerpt is separated from important markdown syntax that surrounds it in the actual article. Therefore these excerpts are for general guidance only. The excerpts only enable you to know whether your interests warrant taking the time to click and visit the actual article.

For these and other reasons, do not copy code from these excerpts, and do not take as exact truth any text excerpt. Instead, visit the actual article.





&nbsp;

<a name="compactupdatedlist"/>

### Compact List of Articles Updated Recently

This compact list provides links to all the updated articles that are listed in the Excerpts section.

1. [WideWorldImporters database catalog](#TitleNum_1)




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

<a name="TitleNum_1"/>

### 1. &nbsp; [WideWorldImporters database catalog](world-wide-importers/database-catalog-oltp.md)

*Updated: 2017-11-20* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 

<!-- Source markdown line 136.  ms.author= "barbkess".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 c055d0483699f06b8766ac2c999101934c14c55c 6975d5a3d1ade7b0ce34bd165bc0e9ef49299ba2  (PR=4032  ,  Filename=database-catalog-oltp.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\sample\world-wide-importers\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=7f8aebc72e7d0c8cff3990865c9f1316996a67d5) -->



Wherever possible, the database collocates tables that are commonly queried together into the same schema to minimize join complexity.

The database schema has been code-generated based on a series of metadata tables in another database WWI_Preparation. This gives WideWorldImporters a very high degree of design consistency, naming consistency, and completeness. For details on how the schema has been generated see the source code: [wide-world-importers/wwi-database-scripts](https://github.com/Microsoft/sql-server-samples/tree/master/samples/databases/wide-world-importers/sample-scripts)

**Table design**


- All tables have single column primary keys for join simplicity.
- All schemas, tables, columns, indexes, and check constraints have a Description extended property that can be used to identify the purpose of the object or column. Memory-optimized tables are an exception to this since they don't currently support extended properties.
- All foreign keys are automatically indexed unless there is another non-clustered index that has the same left-hand component.
- Auto-numbering in tables is based on sequences. These sequences are easier to work with across linked servers and similar environments than IDENTITY columns. Memory-optimized tables use IDENTITY columns since they don't support in SQL Server 2016.
- A single sequence (TransactionID) is used for these tables: CustomerTransactions, SupplierTransactions, and StockItemTransactions. This demonstrates how a set of tables can have a single sequence.
- Some columns have appropriate default values.

**Security schemas**


For security, WideWorldImporters does not allow external applications to access data schemas directly. To isolate access, WideWorldImporters uses security-access schemas that do not hold data, but contain views and stored procedures. External applications use the security schemas to retrieve the data that they are allowed to view.  This way, users can only run the views and stored procedures in the secure-access schemas







## Similar Articles

<!--  HOW TO:
    Refresh this file's line items with the latest 'Count-in-Similars*' content.
    Then run Run-533-*.BAT
    2017-12-02  23:00pm
-->

This section lists very similar articles for recently updated articles in other subject areas, within our public GitHub.com repository: [MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs/).

#### Subject areas which do have new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (3+14): **Advanced Analytics for SQL** docs](../advanced-analytics/new-updated-advanced-analytics.md)
- [New + Updated (1+0):  **Analysis Services for SQL** docs](../analysis-services/new-updated-analysis-services.md)
- [New + Updated (87+0): **Analytics Platform System for SQL** docs](../analytics-platform-system/new-updated-analytics-platform-system.md)
- [New + Updated (5+4):  **Connect to SQL** docs](../connect/new-updated-connect.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):  **Database Engine for SQL** docs](../database-engine/new-updated-database-engine.md)
- [New + Updated (2+2):  **Integration Services for SQL** docs](../integration-services/new-updated-integration-services.md)
- [New + Updated (10+9): **Linux for SQL** docs](../linux/new-updated-linux.md)
- [New + Updated (2+4):  **Relational Databases for SQL** docs](../relational-databases/new-updated-relational-databases.md)
- [New + Updated (4+2):  **Reporting Services for SQL** docs](../reporting-services/new-updated-reporting-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):  **Samples for SQL** docs](../sample/new-updated-sample.md)
- [New + Updated (21+0): **SQL Operations Studio** docs](../sql-operations-studio/new-updated-sql-operations-studio.md)
- [New + Updated (5+1):  **Microsoft SQL Server** docs](../sql-server/new-updated-sql-server.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):  **SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)** docs](../ssdt/new-updated-ssdt.md)
- [New + Updated (1+0):  **SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA)** docs](../ssma/new-updated-ssma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):  **SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)** docs](../ssms/new-updated-ssms.md)
- [New + Updated (0+2):  **Transact-SQL** docs](../t-sql/new-updated-t-sql.md)

#### Subject areas which have no new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Migration Assistant (DMA) for SQL** docs](../dma/new-updated-dma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **ActiveX Data Objects (ADO) for SQL** docs](../ado/new-updated-ado.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Quality Services for SQL** docs](../data-quality-services/new-updated-data-quality-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Mining Extensions (DMX) for SQL** docs](../dmx/new-updated-dmx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Master Data Services (MDS) for SQL** docs](../master-data-services/new-updated-master-data-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Multidimensional Expressions (MDX) for SQL** docs](../mdx/new-updated-mdx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) for SQL** docs](../odbc/new-updated-odbc.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **PowerShell for SQL** docs](../powershell/new-updated-powershell.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Tools for SQL** docs](../tools/new-updated-tools.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **XQuery for SQL** docs](../xquery/new-updated-xquery.md)


