docs/t-sql/statements/create-workload-classifier-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "CREATE WORKLOAD Classifier (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/13/2019"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "sql-data-warehouse"
ms.reviewer: "jrasnick"
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER"
  - "WORKLOAD_CLASSIFIER_TSQL"
  - "CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER"
  - "CREATE_WORKLOAD_CLASSIFIER_TSQL"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER statement"
ms.assetid: 
author: ronortloff
ms.author: rortloff
manager: craigg
monikerRange: "=azure-sqldw-latest||=sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER (Transact-SQL) (Preview)

[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md.md)]

Creates a Workload Management Classifier.  The classifier assigns incoming requests to a workload group and assigns importance based on the parameters specified in the classifier statement definition.  Classifiers are evaluated with every request submitted.  If a request is not matched to a classifier, it is assigned to the default workload group.  The default workload group is the smallrc resource class.  
  
 ![Topic link icon](../../database-engine/configure-windows/media/topic-link.gif "Topic link icon") [Transact-SQL Syntax Conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md).  
  
## Syntax

```
CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER classifier_name  
WITH  
    ( WORKLOAD_GROUP = 'name'  
     ,MEMBERNAME = 'security_account'
 [ [ , ] IMPORTANCE = { LOW | BELOW_NORMAL | NORMAL (default) | ABOVE_NORMAL | HIGH }])
[;]
```

## Arguments

 *classifier_name*  
 Specifies the name by which the workload classifier is identified.  classifier_name is a sysname.  It can be up to 128 characters long and must be unique within the instance.

WORKLOAD_GROUP = *'name'*
When the conditions are met by the classifier rules, name maps the request to a workload group.  name is a sysname.  It can be up to 128 characters long and must be a valid workload group name at the time of classifier creation.

WORKLOAD_GROUP should map to an existing resource class:

|Static Resource Classes|Dynamic Resource Classes|
|------------------------|-----------------------|
|staticrc10|smallrc|
|staticrc20|mediumrc|
|staticrc30|largerc|
|staticrc40|xlargerc|
|staticrc50||
|staticrc60||
|staticrc70||
|staticrc80||

MEMBERNAME = *'security_account'*
This is the security account being added to the role.  Security_account is a sysname, with no default. Security_account can be a database user, database role, Azure Active Directory login, or Azure Active Directory group.

IMPORTANCE = { LOW | BELOW_NORMAL | NORMAL | ABOVE_NORMAL | HIGH }
Specifies the relative importance of a request.  Importance is one of the following:

- LOW
- BELOW_NORMAL
- NORMAL (default)
- ABOVE_NORMAL
- HIGH  

Importance influences the order in which requests are scheduled, thus giving first access to resources and locks.

If a user is a member of multiple roles with different resource classes assigned or matched in multiple classifiers, the user is given the highest resource class assignment. For more information see, [workload classification](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-classification#classification-precedence)

## Permissions

 Requires CONTROL DATABASE permission.  
  
## Examples

 The following example shows how to create a workload classifier named `wgcELTRole`. It uses the staticrc20 workload group, the user `ELTRole`, and sets the importance to `above_normal`.

```sql
CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER wgcELTRole
  WITH (WORKLOAD_GROUP = 'staticrc20'
       ,MEMBERNAME = 'ELTRole'
      ,IMPORTANCE = above_normal);
```

## See Also

[DROP WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/statements/drop-workload-classifier-transact-sql.md)</br>
Catalog view [sys.workload_management_workload_classifier_details](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifier-details-transact-sql.md)</br>
Catalog view [sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifiers-transact-sql.md)
[SQL Data Warehouse Classification](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/classification)

Commit message:

WLM updates for preview version

docs/t-sql/statements/create-workload-classifier-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "CREATE WORKLOAD Classifier (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/13/2019"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "sql-data-warehouse"
ms.reviewer: "jrasnick"
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER"
  - "WORKLOAD_CLASSIFIER_TSQL"
  - "CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER"
  - "CREATE_WORKLOAD_CLASSIFIER_TSQL"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER statement"
ms.assetid: 
author: ronortloff
ms.author: rortloff
manager: craigg
monikerRange: "=azure-sqldw-latest||=sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER (Transact-SQL) (Preview)

> [!Note]
> Workload classification is available for preview on SQL Data Warehouse Gen2. Workload Management Classification and Importance preview is for builds with a release date of April 9th, 2019 or later.  Users should avoid using builds earlier than this date for workload management testing.  To determine if your build is workload management capable, run select @@version when connected to your SQL Data Warehouse instance.

[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md.md)]

Creates a Workload Management Classifier.  The classifier assigns incoming requests to a workload group and assigns importance based on the parameters specified in the classifier statement definition.  Classifiers are evaluated with every request submitted.  If a request is not matched to a classifier, it is assigned to the default workload group.  The default workload group is the smallrc resource class.  
  
 ![Topic link icon](../../database-engine/configure-windows/media/topic-link.gif "Topic link icon") [Transact-SQL Syntax Conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md).  
  
## Syntax

```
CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER classifier_name  
WITH  
    ( WORKLOAD_GROUP = 'name'  
     ,MEMBERNAME = 'security_account'
 [ [ , ] IMPORTANCE = { LOW | BELOW_NORMAL | NORMAL (default) | ABOVE_NORMAL | HIGH }])
[;]
```

## Arguments

 *classifier_name*  
 Specifies the name by which the workload classifier is identified.  classifier_name is a sysname.  It can be up to 128 characters long and must be unique within the instance.

WORKLOAD_GROUP = *'name'*
When the conditions are met by the classifier rules, name maps the request to a workload group.  name is a sysname.  It can be up to 128 characters long and must be a valid workload group name at the time of classifier creation.

WORKLOAD_GROUP should map to an existing resource class:

|Static Resource Classes|Dynamic Resource Classes|
|------------------------|-----------------------|
|staticrc10|smallrc|
|staticrc20|mediumrc|
|staticrc30|largerc|
|staticrc40|xlargerc|
|staticrc50||
|staticrc60||
|staticrc70||
|staticrc80||

MEMBERNAME = *'security_account'*
This is the security account being added to the role.  Security_account is a sysname, with no default. Security_account can be a database user, database role, Azure Active Directory login, or Azure Active Directory group.

IMPORTANCE = { LOW | BELOW_NORMAL | NORMAL | ABOVE_NORMAL | HIGH }
Specifies the relative importance of a request.  Importance is one of the following:

- LOW
- BELOW_NORMAL
- NORMAL (default)
- ABOVE_NORMAL
- HIGH  

Importance influences the order in which requests are scheduled, thus giving first access to resources and locks.

If a user is a member of multiple roles with different resource classes assigned or matched in multiple classifiers, the user is given the highest resource class assignment. For more information see, [workload classification](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-classification#classification-precedence)

## Permissions

 Requires CONTROL DATABASE permission.  
  
## Examples

 The following example shows how to create a workload classifier named `wgcELTRole`. It uses the staticrc20 workload group, the user `ELTRole`, and sets the importance to `above_normal`.

```sql
CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER wgcELTRole
  WITH (WORKLOAD_GROUP = 'staticrc20'
       ,MEMBERNAME = 'ELTRole'
      ,IMPORTANCE = above_normal);
```

## See Also

[DROP WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/statements/drop-workload-classifier-transact-sql.md)</br>
Catalog view [sys.workload_management_workload_classifier_details](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifier-details-transact-sql.md)</br>
Catalog view [sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifiers-transact-sql.md)
[SQL Data Warehouse Classification](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/classification)
