docs/t-sql/statements/drop-external-library-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/05/2018"
ms.prod: sql
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY"
  - "DROP_EXTERNAL_LIBRARY_TSQL"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY"
author: HeidiSteen
ms.author: heidist
manager: cgronlund
monikerRange: ">=sql-server-2017||=sqlallproducts-allversions||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY (Transact-SQL)  
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2017-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2017-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]

Deletes an existing package library. Package libraries are used by supported external runtimes, such as R or Python.

## Syntax

```sql
DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY library_name
[ AUTHORIZATION owner_name ];
```

### Arguments

**library_name**

Specifies the name of an existing package library.

Libraries are scoped to the user. Library names must be unique within the context of a specific user or owner.

**owner_name**

Specifies the name of the user or role that owns the external library.

Database owners can delete libraries created by other users.

## Permissions

To delete a library requires the privilege ALTER ANY EXTERNAL LIBRARY. By default, any database owner, or the owner of the object, can also delete an external library.

### Return values

An informational message is returned if the statement was successful.

## Remarks

Unlike other `DROP` statements in SQL Server, this statement supports specifying an optional authorization clause. This allows **dbo** or users in the **db_owner** role to drop a package library uploaded by a regular user in the database.

## Examples

Add the custom R package, `customPackage`, to a database:

```sql
CREATE EXTERNAL LIBRARY customPackage 
FROM (CONTENT = 'C:\temp\customPackage_v1.1.zip')
WITH (LANGUAGE = 'R');
GO
```

Delete the `customPackage` library.

```sql
DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY customPackage;
```

## See also

[CREATE EXTERNAL LIBRARY (Transact-SQL)](create-external-library-transact-sql.md)  
[ALTER EXTERNAL LIBRARY (Transact-SQL)](alter-external-library-transact-sql.md)  
[sys.external_library_files](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-external-library-files-transact-sql.md)  
[sys.external_libraries](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-external-libraries-transact-sql.md)

Commit message:

External libraries support for Java and Python

docs/t-sql/statements/drop-external-library-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "02/15/2019"
ms.prod: sql
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY"
  - "DROP_EXTERNAL_LIBRARY_TSQL"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY"
author: dphansen
ms.author: davidph
manager: cgronlund
monikerRange: ">=sql-server-2017||=sqlallproducts-allversions||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY (Transact-SQL)  
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2017-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2017-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]

Deletes an existing package library. Package libraries are used by supported external runtimes, such as R, Python, or Java.

> [!NOTE]
> In SQL Server 2017, R language and Windows platform are supported. R, Python, and Java on the Windows platform are supported in SQL Server 2019 CTP 2.3. Support for Linux is planned for a later release.

## Syntax

```sql
DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY library_name
[ AUTHORIZATION owner_name ];
```

### Arguments

**library_name**

Specifies the name of an existing package library.

Libraries are scoped to the user. Library names must be unique within the context of a specific user or owner.

**owner_name**

Specifies the name of the user or role that owns the external library.

Database owners can delete libraries created by other users.

## Permissions

To delete a library requires the privilege ALTER ANY EXTERNAL LIBRARY. By default, any database owner, or the owner of the object, can also delete an external library.

### Return values

An informational message is returned if the statement was successful.

## Remarks

Unlike other `DROP` statements in SQL Server, this statement supports specifying an optional authorization clause. This allows **dbo** or users in the **db_owner** role to drop a package library uploaded by a regular user in the database.

## Examples

Add the custom R package, `customPackage`, to a database:

```sql
CREATE EXTERNAL LIBRARY customPackage 
FROM (CONTENT = 'C:\temp\customPackage_v1.1.zip')
WITH (LANGUAGE = 'R');
GO
```

Delete the `customPackage` library.

```sql
DROP EXTERNAL LIBRARY customPackage;
```

## See also

[CREATE EXTERNAL LIBRARY (Transact-SQL)](create-external-library-transact-sql.md)  
[ALTER EXTERNAL LIBRARY (Transact-SQL)](alter-external-library-transact-sql.md)  
[sys.external_library_files](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-external-library-files-transact-sql.md)  
[sys.external_libraries](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-external-libraries-transact-sql.md)
