---
title: "Column Length Distribution Profile Request Options (Data Profiling Task) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/14/2017"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "integration-services"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: integration-services
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Data Profiling Task Editor"
ms.assetid: 1a4de41f-f38d-40ea-ba1b-6c0ef67ea52a
author: "douglaslMS"
ms.author: "douglasl"
manager: craigg
---
# Column Length Distribution Profile Request Options (Data Profiling Task)
  Use the **Request Properties** pane of the **Profile Requests** page to set the options for the **Column Length Distribution Profile Request** selected in the requests pane. A Column Length Distribution profile reports all the distinct lengths of string values in the selected column and the percentage of rows in the table that each length represents. This profile can help you identify problems in your data such as invalid values. For example, you profile a column of two-character United States state codes and discover values longer than two characters.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  The options described in this topic appear on the **Profile Requests page** of the **Data Profiling Task Editor**. For more information about this page of the editor, see [Data Profiling Task Editor &#40;Profile Requests Page&#41;](../../integration-services/control-flow/data-profiling-task-editor-profile-requests-page.md).  
  
 For more information about how to use the Data Profiling Task, see [Setup of the Data Profiling Task](../../integration-services/control-flow/setup-of-the-data-profiling-task.md). For more information about how to use the Data Profile Viewer to analyze the output of the Data Profiling Task, see [Data Profile Viewer](../../integration-services/control-flow/data-profile-viewer.md).  
  
## Request Properties Options  
 For a **Column Length Distribution Profile Request**, the **Request Properties** pane displays the following groups of options:  
  
-   **Data**, which includes the **TableOrView** and **Column** options  
  
-   **General**  
  
-   **Options**  
  
### Data Options  
 **ConnectionManager**  
 Select the existing [!INCLUDE[vstecado](../../includes/vstecado-md.md)] connection manager that uses the .NET Data Provider for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] (SqlClient) to connect to the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] database that contains the table or view to be profiled.  
  
 **TableOrView**  
 Select the existing table or view that contains the column to be profiled.  
  
 For more information, see the section, "TableorView Options," in this topic.  
  
 **Column**  
 Select the existing column to be profiled. Select **(\*)** to profile all columns.  
  
 For more information, see the section, "Column Options," in this topic.  
  
#### TableOrView Options  
 **Schema**  
 Specify the schema to which the selected table belongs. This option is read-only.  
  
 **Table**  
 Displays the name of the selected table. This option is read-only.  
  
#### Column Options  
 **IsWildCard**  
 Specifies whether the **(\*)** wildcard has been selected. This option is set to **True** if you have selected **(\*)** to profile all columns. It is **False** if you have selected an individual column to be profiled. This option is read-only.  
  
 **ColumnName**  
 Displays the name of the selected column. This option is blank if you have selected **(\*)** to profile all columns. This option is read-only.  
  
 **StringCompareOptions**  
 This option does not apply to the Column Length Distribution Profile.  
  
### General Options  
 **RequestID**  
 Type a descriptive name to identify this profile request. Typically, you do not have to change the autogenerated value.  
  
### Options  
 **IgnoreLeadingSpaces**  
 Indicate whether to ignore leading spaces when the profile compares string values. The default value of this option is **False**.  
  
 **IgnoreTrailingSpaces**  
 Indicate whether to ignore trailing spaces when the profile compares string values. The default value of this option is **True**.  
  
## See Also  
 [Data Profiling Task Editor &#40;General Page&#41;](../../integration-services/control-flow/data-profiling-task-editor-general-page.md)   
 [Single Table Quick Profile Form &#40;Data Profiling Task&#41;](../../integration-services/control-flow/single-table-quick-profile-form-data-profiling-task.md)  
  
  
