---
title: "Column Statistics Profile Request Options (Data Profiling Task) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/14/2017"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "integration-services"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: integration-services
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Data Profiling Task Editor"
ms.assetid: 87205984-507a-49f3-b27c-36a0075c234d
author: janinezhang
ms.author: janinez
manager: craigg
---
# Column Statistics Profile Request Options (Data Profiling Task)

[!INCLUDE[ssis-appliesto](../../includes/ssis-appliesto-ssvrpluslinux-asdb-asdw-xxx.md)]


  Use the **Request Properties** pane of the **Profile Requests** page to set the options for the **Column Statistics Profile Request** selected in the requests pane. A Column Statistics profile reports statistics such as minimum, maximum, average, and standard deviation for numeric columns, and minimum and maximum for **datetime** columns. This profile can help you identify problems in your data such as invalid dates. For example, you profile a column of historical dates and discover a maximum date that is in the future.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  The options described in this topic appear on the **Profile Requests page** of the **Data Profiling Task Editor**. For more information about this page of the editor, see [Data Profiling Task Editor &#40;Profile Requests Page&#41;](../../integration-services/control-flow/data-profiling-task-editor-profile-requests-page.md).  
  
 For more information about how to use the Data Profiling Task, see [Setup of the Data Profiling Task](../../integration-services/control-flow/setup-of-the-data-profiling-task.md). For more information about how to use the Data Profile Viewer to analyze the output of the Data Profiling Task, see [Data Profile Viewer](../../integration-services/control-flow/data-profile-viewer.md).  
  
## Request Properties Options  
 For a **Column Statistics Profile Request**, the **Request Properties** pane displays the following groups of options:  
  
-   **Data**, which includes the **TableOrView** and **Column** options  
  
-   **General**  
  
### Data Options  
 **ConnectionManager**  
 Select the existing [!INCLUDE[vstecado](../../includes/vstecado-md.md)] connection manager that uses the .NET Data Provider for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] (SqlClient) to connect to the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] database that contains the table or view to be profiled.  
  
 **TableOrView**  
 Select the existing table or view that contains the column to be profiled.  
  
 For more information, see the section, "TableorView Options," in this topic.  
  
 **Column**  
 Select the existing column to be profiled. Select **(\*)** to profile all columns.  
  
 For more information, see the section, "Column Options," in this topic.  
  
#### TableOrView Options  
 **Schema**  
 Specifies the schema to which the selected table belongs. This option is read-only.  
  
 **Table**  
 Displays the name of the selected table. This option is read-only.  
  
#### Column Options  
 **IsWildCard**  
 Specifies whether the **(\*)** wildcard has been selected. This option is set to **True** if you have selected **(\*)** to profile all columns. It is **False** if you have selected an individual column to be profiled. This option is read-only.  
  
 **ColumnName**  
 Displays the name of the selected column. This option is blank if you have selected **(\*)** to profile all columns. This option is read-only.  
  
 **StringCompareOptions**  
 This option does not apply to the Column Statistics Profile.  
  
### General Options  
 **RequestID**  
 Type a descriptive name to identify this profile request. Typically, you do not have to change the autogenerated value.  
  
## See Also  
 [Data Profiling Task Editor &#40;General Page&#41;](../../integration-services/control-flow/data-profiling-task-editor-general-page.md)   
 [Single Table Quick Profile Form &#40;Data Profiling Task&#41;](../../integration-services/control-flow/single-table-quick-profile-form-data-profiling-task.md)  
  
  
