docs/ssma/db2/migrating-db2-databases-to-sql-server-db2tosql.md, before:

---
title: "Migrating DB2 Databases to SQL Server (DB2ToSQL)"
description: Use this recommended process to migrate DB2 databases to SQL Server or Azure SQL Database using SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA).
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 07/10/2023
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.collection:
  - sql-migration-content
ms.custom:
  - intro-migration
f1_keywords:
  - "ssma.db2.migratedata.f1"
---
# Migrate DB2 Databases to SQL Server (DB2ToSQL)

[!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Migration Assistant (SSMA) for DB2 is a comprehensive environment that helps you quickly migrate DB2 databases to [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] or Azure SQL Database. By using SSMA for DB2, you can review database objects and data, assess databases for migration, migrate database objects to [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] or Azure SQL Database, and then migrate data to [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] or Azure SQL Database. You can't migrate SYS and SYSTEM DB2 schemas.

## Recommended migration process

To successfully migrate objects and data from DB2 databases to [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] or Azure SQL Database, use the following process:

1. [New SSMA project](new-project-db2tosql.md).

   After you create the project, you can set project conversion, migration, and type mapping options. For information about project settings, see [Project Settings (Conversion) (DB2ToSQL)](project-settings-conversion-db2tosql.md) and related sections. For information about how to customize data type mappings, see [Mapping DB2 and SQL Server Data Types (DB2ToSQL)](mapping-db2-and-sql-server-data-types-db2tosql.md).

1. [Connect to the DB2 database](connecting-to-db2-database-db2tosql.md).

1. [Connecting to SQL Server](connecting-to-sql-server-db2tosql.md).

1. [Map DB2 schemas to SQL Server schemas](mapping-db2-schemas-to-sql-server-schemas-db2tosql.md).

1. Optionally, [Assessment reports](assessment-report-db2tosql.md) to assess database objects for conversion and estimate the conversion time.

1. [Convert DB2 schemas](converting-db2-schemas-db2tosql.md).

1. [Load the converted database objects into SQL Server](loading-converted-database-objects-into-sql-server-db2tosql.md).

   You can do this in one of the following ways:

   - Save a script and run it in [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)].

   - Synchronize the database objects.

1. [Migrating DB2 Data into SQL Server](migrating-db2-data-into-sql-server-db2tosql.md).

1. If necessary, update database applications.

## See also

- [Installing SSMA for DB2 (DB2ToSQL)](installing-ssma-for-db2-db2tosql.md)
- [Getting Started with SSMA for DB2 (DB2ToSQL)](getting-started-with-ssma-for-db2-db2tosql.md)

Commit message:

SSMA for DB2 content refresh (Phase 1)

docs/ssma/db2/migrating-db2-databases-to-sql-server-db2tosql.md, after:

---
title: "Migrate Db2 Databases to SQL Server (Db2ToSQL)"
description: Use this recommended process to migrate Db2 databases to SQL Server or Azure SQL Database using SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA).
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 09/24/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.collection:
  - sql-migration-content
ms.custom:
  - intro-migration
f1_keywords:
  - "ssma.db2.migratedata.f1"
---
# Migrate Db2 Databases to SQL Server (Db2ToSQL)

SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Db2 is a comprehensive environment that helps you quickly migrate Db2 databases to [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] or Azure SQL Database. By using SSMA for Db2, you can review database objects and data, assess databases for migration, migrate database objects to [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] or Azure SQL Database, and then migrate data to [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] or Azure SQL Database. You can't migrate SYS and SYSTEM Db2 schemas.

## Recommended migration process

To successfully migrate objects and data from Db2 databases to [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] or Azure SQL Database, use the following process:

1. [New Project](new-project-db2tosql.md).

   After you create the project, you can set project conversion, migration, and type mapping options. For information about project settings, see [Project Settings (Conversion)](project-settings-conversion-db2tosql.md) and related sections. For information about how to customize data type mappings, see [Map Db2 and SQL Server Data Types](mapping-db2-and-sql-server-data-types-db2tosql.md).

1. [Connect to Db2 database](connecting-to-db2-database-db2tosql.md).

1. [Connect to SQL Server](connecting-to-sql-server-db2tosql.md).

1. [Map Db2 Schemas to SQL Server Schemas](mapping-db2-schemas-to-sql-server-schemas-db2tosql.md).

1. Optionally, [Assessment Report](assessment-report-db2tosql.md) to assess database objects for conversion and estimate the conversion time.

1. [Convert Db2 schemas](converting-db2-schemas-db2tosql.md).

1. [Load converted database objects into SQL Server](loading-converted-database-objects-into-sql-server-db2tosql.md).

   You can do this in one of the following ways:

   - Save a script and run it in [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)].

   - Synchronize the database objects.

1. [Migrate Db2 Data into SQL Server](migrating-db2-data-into-sql-server-db2tosql.md).

1. If necessary, update database applications.

## Related content

- [Install SSMA for Db2 (Db2ToSQL)](installing-ssma-for-db2-db2tosql.md)
- [Get Started with SSMA for Db2 (Db2ToSQL)](getting-started-with-ssma-for-db2-db2tosql.md)
