docs/ssma/db2/working-with-ssma-for-db2-console-db2tosql.md, before:

---
title: "Working with SSMA for DB2 Console (DB2ToSQL)"
description: "Working with SSMA for DB2 Console (DB2ToSQL)"
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 12/16/2022
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.collection:
  - sql-migration-content
---
# Work with SSMA for DB2 Console (DB2ToSQL)

[!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../includes/msconame-md.md)] [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Migration Assistant (SSMA) release for DB2 is now accessible through a console application at command line. The script files form the input to the application for executing the commands. As a console application, SSMA enables script-level interfacing, reduces the migration cycle, and scales the migration effort.

This section explains the procedure to migrate the DB2 database using the SSMA Console application.

Articles covered in this section include:

| article | Description |
| - | - |
| [Getting Started with SSMA for DB2 Console (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/getting-started-with-ssma-for-db2-console-db2tosql.md) | Explains the procedure to execute the console application. |
| [Command Line Options in SSMA Console (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/command-line-options-in-ssma-console-db2tosql.md) | Describes the command line options and parameters to operate the SSMA console application. |
| [Creating Script Files (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/creating-script-files-db2tosql.md) | Explains how to create a script file. |
| [Creating Variable Value Files (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/creating-variable-value-files-db2tosql.md) | Explains how to create a variable value file. |
| [Creating the Server Connection Files (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/creating-the-server-connection-files-db2tosql.md) | Explains how to create a server connection file. |
| [Executing the SSMA Console (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/executing-the-ssma-console-db2tosql.md) | Describes the script file commands to operate the SSMA console application. |
| [Working with the Sample Console Script Files (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/working-with-the-sample-console-script-files-db2tosql.md) | Describes the way to easily customize the scripts that have been provided in the sample files along with the product. |
| [Managing Passwords (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/managing-passwords-db2tosql.md) | Describes about password encryption and decryption, and importing/ exporting password information. |
| [Generating Reports (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/generating-reports-db2tosql.md) | Lists the commands to generate reports. |
| [Troubleshooting (DB2ToSQL)](../../ssma/db2/troubleshooting-db2tosql.md) | Provides brief information about fixing migration issues. |

## See also

- [Getting Started with SSMA for DB2 Console](./getting-started-with-ssma-for-db2-console-db2tosql.md)

Commit message:

SSMA for DB2 content refresh (Phase 1)

docs/ssma/db2/working-with-ssma-for-db2-console-db2tosql.md, after:

---
title: "Work with SSMA for Db2 console (Db2ToSQL)"
description: Learn about working with SSMA for Db2 Console (Db2ToSQL)
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 09/24/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.collection:
  - sql-migration-content
---
# Work with SSMA for Db2 console (Db2ToSQL)

The SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) release for Db2 is accessible through a console application at the command line. The script files form the input to the application for executing the commands. As a console application, SSMA enables script-level interfacing, reduces the migration cycle, and scales the migration effort.

This section explains the procedure to migrate the Db2 database using the SSMA console application.

| Article | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [Get Started with SSMA for Db2 Console](getting-started-with-ssma-for-db2-console-db2tosql.md) | Explains the procedure to execute the console application. |
| [Command line options in SSMA console](command-line-options-in-ssma-console-db2tosql.md) | Describes the command line options and parameters to operate the SSMA console application. |
| [Create script files](creating-script-files-db2tosql.md) | Explains how to create a script file. |
| [Create variable value files](creating-variable-value-files-db2tosql.md) | Explains how to create a variable value file. |
| [Create the server connection files](creating-the-server-connection-files-db2tosql.md) | Explains how to create a server connection file. |
| [Execute the SSMA console](executing-the-ssma-console-db2tosql.md) | Describes the script file commands to operate the SSMA console application. |
| [Work with sample console script files](working-with-the-sample-console-script-files-db2tosql.md) | Describes the way to easily customize the scripts that are provided in the sample files along with the product. |
| [Manage Passwords](managing-passwords-db2tosql.md) | Describes about password encryption and decryption, and importing/ exporting password information. |
| [Generate reports](generating-reports-db2tosql.md) | Lists the commands to generate reports. |
| [Troubleshoot](troubleshooting-db2tosql.md) | Provides brief information about fixing migration issues. |

## Related content

- [Get Started with SSMA for Db2 Console](getting-started-with-ssma-for-db2-console-db2tosql.md)
