---
title: "Clickthrough Reports Page (Report Manager) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "05/24/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2014"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "reporting-services-native"
ms.topic: conceptual
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql12.swb.reportserver.modelproperties.drilthroughreports.f1"
ms.assetid: e96cdeba-452b-45a8-9bcf-b75d76261e31
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
manager: kfile
---
# Clickthrough Reports Page (Report Manager)
  A clickthrough report displays a table of related data when you click the interactive data contained within your report. These reports are generated by the report server based on information contained within the model you used to create the report. If you do not want to use the clickthrough reports that the report server generates, you can create custom reports that you publish to a report server and map to interactive data points defined in the model. The custom reports must be created in Report Builder from the same model and then published to the report server. To map custom reports to items in the model, use the Clickthrough Reports page in Report Manager.  
  
 The Clickthrough Reports page provides a way to map predefined, published Report Builder reports to specific entities, folders, and items within a model. When you map a report to an item within a model, users who navigate to that item get the custom report rather than a temporary report that is generated by the report server.  
  
 If you are providing custom reports, you should include both a single instance and multi-instance version of the report. The data path by which a user navigates to a specific entity determines whether a single instance or multi-instance report is presented to the user at run time. You cannot always know in advance whether a particular version of the report is not needed.  
  
 Custom reports that you map to entities are secured through the report server folder hierarchy. If you map a model item to a report, and that report is not available to a user who has navigated to it, the user will get a temporary report that is generated by the report server instead of the custom report you intended.  
  
 Although you can select any report to which you have access, select only those reports that are created specifically for the model you are configuring.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  Clickthrough reports are not available in every edition of [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../includes/msconame-md.md)][!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. For a list of features that are supported by the editions of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], see [Features Supported by the Editions of SQL Server 2014](../../2014/getting-started/features-supported-by-the-editions-of-sql-server-2014.md). If you are not sure of which edition of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] that your organization is running, contact your database administrator.  
  
## Navigation  
 Use the following procedure to navigate to this location in the user interface (UI).  
  
###### To open the Clickthrough Reports page  
  
1.  Open Report Manager, and locate the model for which you want to map clickthrough reports to entities in the model.  
  
2.  Hover over the model, and click the drop-down arrow.  
  
3.  In the drop-down menu, click **Manage**. This opens the **General** properties page for the model.  
  
4.  Select the **Clickthrough** tab.  
  
## Options  
 **Model item hierarchy**  
 Shows the entities, folders, and items in the model namespace for which you can provide a customized report.  
  
 **Single instance report**  
 Specifies the custom report to use when user navigation requires a view of single instance data. Click the browse button to select the report you want to use.  
  
 **Multiple instances report**  
 Specifies the custom report to use when user navigation requires a view of multi-instance data. Click the browse button to select the report you want to use.  
  
## See Also  
 [Publish Reports](../../2014/reporting-services/publish-reports.md)  
  
  
