docs/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-request-steps-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "sys.dm_pdw_request_steps (Transact-SQL)"
description: sys.dm_pdw_request_steps Holds information about all steps that compose a given request or query in Azure Synapse Analytics.
author: WilliamDAssafMSFT
ms.author: wiassaf
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 04/15/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: data-warehouse
ms.topic: "reference"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016||=azure-sqldw-latest"
---
# sys.dm_pdw_request_steps (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [applies-to-version/asa-pdw](../../includes/applies-to-version/asa-pdw.md)]

Holds information about all steps that compose a given request or query in [!INCLUDE [ssazuresynapse-md](../../includes/ssazuresynapse-md.md)]. It lists one row per query step.

> [!NOTE]  
> [!INCLUDE [synapse-analytics-od-unsupported-syntax](../../includes/synapse-analytics-od-unsupported-syntax.md)]

| Column name | Data type | Description | Range |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `request_id` | **nvarchar(32)** | `request_id` and `step_index` make up the key for this view.<br /><br />Unique numeric ID associated with the request. | See `request_id` in [sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests](sys-dm-pdw-exec-requests-transact-sql.md). |
| `step_index` | **int** | `request_id` and `step_index` make up the key for this view.<br /><br />The position of this step in the sequence of steps that make up the request. | `0` to (*n* - 1) for a request with *n* steps. |
| `plan_node_id` | **int** | The node ID corresponding to the operator ID of that step in the execution plan. | None |
| `operation_type` | **nvarchar(35)** | Type of operation represented by this step. | **DMS query plan operations:** `PartitionMoveOperation`, `MoveOperation`, `BroadcastMoveOperation`, `ShuffleMoveOperation`, `TrimMoveOperation`, `CopyOperation`, `DistributeReplicatedTableMoveOperation`<br /><br />**SQL query plan operations:** `ReturnOperation`, `OnOperation`, `RemoteOperation`<br /><br />**Other query plan operations:** `MetaDataCreateOperation`, `RandomIDOperation`<br /><br />**External operations for reads:** `HadoopShuffleOperation`, `HadoopRoundRobinOperation`, `HadoopBroadcastOperation`<br /><br />**External operations for MapReduce:** `HadoopJobOperation`, `HdfsDeleteOperation`<br /><br />**External operations for writes:** `ExternalExportDistributedOperation`, `ExternalExportReplicatedOperation`, `ExternalExportControlOperation`<br /><br />For more information, see "Understanding Query Plans" in the [!INCLUDE [pdw-product-documentation](../../includes/pdw-product-documentation-md.md)].<br /><br />A query plan can also be affected by the database settings. Check [ALTER DATABASE SET options](../../t-sql/statements/alter-database-transact-sql-set-options.md?bc=%252fazure%252fsql-data-warehouse%252fbreadcrumb%252ftoc.json&toc=%252fazure%252fsql-data-warehouse%252ftoc.json&view=azure-sqldw-latest&preserve-view=true) for details. |
| `distribution_type` | **nvarchar(32)** | Type of distribution this step undergoes. | `AllNodes`, `AllDistributions`, `AllComputeNodes`, `ComputeNode`, `Distribution`, `SubsetNodes`, `SubsetDistributions`, `Unspecified` |
| `location_type` | **nvarchar(32)** | Specifies where the step is running. | `Compute`, `Control`, `DMS` |
| `status` | **nvarchar(32)** | Status of this step. | `Pending`, `Running`, `Complete`, `Failed`, `UndoFailed`, `PendingCancel`, `Cancelled`, `Undone`, `Aborted` |
| `error_id` | **nvarchar(36)** | Unique ID of the error associated with this step, if any. | See `error_id` of [sys.dm_pdw_errors](sys-dm-pdw-errors-transact-sql.md). `NULL` if no error occurred. |
| `start_time` | **datetime** | Time at which the step started execution. | Smaller or equal to current time and larger or equal to `end_compile_time` of the query to which this step belongs. For more information on queries, see [sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests](sys-dm-pdw-exec-requests-transact-sql.md). |
| `end_time` | **datetime** | Time at which this step completed execution, was canceled, or failed. | Smaller or equal to current time and larger or equal to `start_time`. Set to `NULL` for steps currently in execution or queued. |
| `total_elapsed_time` | **int** | Total amount of time the query step has been running, in milliseconds. | Between `0` and the difference between `end_time` and `start_time`. `0` for queued steps.<br /><br />If `total_elapsed_time` exceeds the maximum value for an integer, `total_elapsed_time` continues to be the maximum value. This condition generates the warning "The maximum value has been exceeded."<br /><br />The maximum value in milliseconds is equivalent to 24.8 days. |
| `row_count` | **bigint** | Total number of rows changed or returned by this request. | The number of rows affected by the step. Greater than or equal to zero for data operation steps. `-1` for steps that don't operate on data. |
| `estimated_rows` | **bigint** | Total number of rows of work calculated during query compilation. | The number of rows estimated by the step. Greater than or equal to zero for data operation steps. `-1` for steps that don't operate on data. |
| `command` | **nvarchar(4000)** | Holds the full text of the command of this step. | Any valid request string for a step. `NULL` when the operation is of the type `MetaDataCreateOperation`. Truncated if longer than 4,000 characters. |

 For information about the maximum rows retained by this view, see [Capacity limits](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-service-capacity-limits#metadata).

## Related content

- [SQL and Parallel Data Warehouse Dynamic Management Views](sql-and-parallel-data-warehouse-dynamic-management-views.md)

Commit message:

Learn Editor: Update sys-dm-pdw-request-steps-transact-sql.md
Learn Editor: Update sys-dm-pdw-request-steps-transact-sql.md

Learn Editor: Update sys-dm-pdw-request-steps-transact-sql.md

Update docs/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-request-steps-transact-sql.md

docs/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-request-steps-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "sys.dm_pdw_request_steps (Transact-SQL)"
description: sys.dm_pdw_request_steps Holds information about all steps that compose a given request or query in Azure Synapse Analytics.
author: WilliamDAssafMSFT
ms.author: wiassaf
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 04/15/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: data-warehouse
ms.topic: "reference"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016||=azure-sqldw-latest"
---
# sys.dm_pdw_request_steps (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [applies-to-version/asa-pdw](../../includes/applies-to-version/asa-pdw.md)]

Holds information about all steps that compose a given request or query in [!INCLUDE [ssazuresynapse-md](../../includes/ssazuresynapse-md.md)]. It lists one row per query step.

> [!NOTE]  
> [!INCLUDE [synapse-analytics-od-unsupported-syntax](../../includes/synapse-analytics-od-unsupported-syntax.md)]

| Column name | Data type | Description | Range |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `request_id` | **nvarchar(32)** | `request_id` and `step_index` make up the key for this view.<br /><br />Unique numeric ID associated with the request. | See `request_id` in [sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests](sys-dm-pdw-exec-requests-transact-sql.md). |
| `step_index` | **int** | `request_id` and `step_index` make up the key for this view.<br /><br />The position of this step in the sequence of steps that make up the request. | `0` to (*n* - 1) for a request with *n* steps. |
| `plan_node_id` | **int** | The node ID corresponding to the operator ID of that step in the execution plan. | None |
| `operation_type` | **nvarchar(35)** | Type of operation represented by this step. | **DMS query plan operations:** `PartitionMoveOperation`, `MoveOperation`, `BroadcastMoveOperation`, `ShuffleMoveOperation`, `TrimMoveOperation`, `CopyOperation`, `DistributeReplicatedTableMoveOperation`<br /><br />**SQL query plan operations:** `ReturnOperation`, `OnOperation`, `RemoteOperation`<br /><br />**Other query plan operations:** `MetaDataCreateOperation`, `RandomIDOperation`<br /><br />**External operations for reads:** `HadoopShuffleOperation`, `HadoopRoundRobinOperation`, `HadoopBroadcastOperation`<br /><br />**External operations for MapReduce:** `HadoopJobOperation`, `HdfsDeleteOperation`<br /><br />**External operations for writes:** `ExternalExportDistributedOperation`, `ExternalExportReplicatedOperation`, `ExternalExportControlOperation`<br /><br />For more information, see "Understanding Query Plans" in the [!INCLUDE [pdw-product-documentation](../../includes/pdw-product-documentation-md.md)].<br /><br />A query plan can also be affected by the database settings. Check [ALTER DATABASE SET options](../../t-sql/statements/alter-database-transact-sql-set-options.md?bc=%252fazure%252fsql-data-warehouse%252fbreadcrumb%252ftoc.json&toc=%252fazure%252fsql-data-warehouse%252ftoc.json&view=azure-sqldw-latest&preserve-view=true) for details. |
| `distribution_type` | **nvarchar(32)** | Type of distribution this step undergoes. | `AllNodes`, `AllDistributions`, `AllComputeNodes`, `ComputeNode`, `Distribution`, `SubsetNodes`, `SubsetDistributions`, `Unspecified` |
| `location_type` | **nvarchar(32)** | Specifies where the step is running. | `Compute`, `Control`, `DMS` |
| `status` | **nvarchar(32)** | Status of this step. | `Pending`, `Running`, `Complete`, `Failed`, `UndoFailed`, `PendingCancel`, `Cancelled`, `Undone`, `Aborted` |
| `error_id` | **nvarchar(36)** | Unique ID of the error associated with this step, if any. | `NULL` if no error occurred. The `request_id` can be matched with the `request_id` in [sys.dm_pdw_errors](sys-dm-pdw-errors-transact-sql.md) to view all of the listed errors for that specific `request_id`. |
| `start_time` | **datetime** | Time at which the step started execution. | Smaller or equal to current time and larger or equal to `end_compile_time` of the query to which this step belongs. For more information on queries, see [sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests](sys-dm-pdw-exec-requests-transact-sql.md). |
| `end_time` | **datetime** | Time at which this step completed execution, was canceled, or failed. | Smaller or equal to current time and larger or equal to `start_time`. Set to `NULL` for steps currently in execution or queued. |
| `total_elapsed_time` | **int** | Total amount of time the query step has been running, in milliseconds. | Between `0` and the difference between `end_time` and `start_time`. `0` for queued steps.<br /><br />If `total_elapsed_time` exceeds the maximum value for an integer, `total_elapsed_time` continues to be the maximum value. This condition generates the warning "The maximum value has been exceeded."<br /><br />The maximum value in milliseconds is equivalent to 24.8 days. |
| `row_count` | **bigint** | Total number of rows changed or returned by this request. | The number of rows affected by the step. Greater than or equal to zero for data operation steps. `-1` for steps that don't operate on data. |
| `estimated_rows` | **bigint** | Total number of rows of work calculated during query compilation. | The number of rows estimated by the step. Greater than or equal to zero for data operation steps. `-1` for steps that don't operate on data. |
| `command` | **nvarchar(4000)** | Holds the full text of the command of this step. | Any valid request string for a step. `NULL` when the operation is of the type `MetaDataCreateOperation`. Truncated if longer than 4,000 characters. |

 For information about the maximum rows retained by this view, see [Capacity limits](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-service-capacity-limits#metadata).

## Related content

- [SQL and Parallel Data Warehouse Dynamic Management Views](sql-and-parallel-data-warehouse-dynamic-management-views.md)
