docs/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-exec-requests-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/26/2019"
ms.prod: sql
ms.technology: data-warehouse
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.topic: "language-reference"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
ms.assetid: 390225cc-23e8-4051-a5f6-221e33e4c0b4
author: ronortloff
ms.author: rortloff
manager: craigg
monikerRange: ">= aps-pdw-2016 || = azure-sqldw-latest || = sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-pdw-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-pdw-md.md)]

  Holds information about all requests currently or recently active in [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)]. It lists one row per request/query.  
  
|Column Name|Data Type|Description|Range|  
|-----------------|---------------|-----------------|-----------|  
|request_id|**nvarchar(32)**|Key for this view. Unique numeric ID associated with the request.|Unique across all requests in the system.|  
|session_id|**nvarchar(32)**|Unique numeric ID associated with the session in which this query was run. See [sys.dm_pdw_exec_sessions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-exec-sessions-transact-sql.md).||  
|status|**nvarchar(32)**|Current status of the request.|'Running', 'Suspended', 'Completed', 'Canceled', 'Failed'.|  
|submit_time|**datetime**|Time at which the request was submitted for execution.|Valid **datetime** smaller or equal to the current time and start_time.|  
|start_time|**datetime**|Time at which the request execution was started.|NULL for queued requests; otherwise, valid **datetime** smaller or equal to current time.|  
|end_compile_time|**datetime**|Time at which the engine completed compiling the request.|NULL for requests that haven't been compiled yet; otherwise a valid **datetime** less than start_time and less than or equal to the current time.|
|end_time|**datetime**|Time at which the request execution completed, failed, or was canceled.|Null for queued or active requests; otherwise, a valid **datetime** smaller or equal to current time.|  
|total_elapsed_time|**int**|Time elapsed in execution since the request was started, in milliseconds.|Between 0 and the difference between start_time and end_time.</br></br> If total_elapsed_time exceeds the maximum value for an integer, total_elapsed_time will continue to be the maximum value. This condition will generate the warning "The maximum value has been exceeded."</br></br> The maximum value in milliseconds is the same as 24.8 days.|  
|label|**nvarchar(255)**|Optional label string associated with some SELECT query statements.|Any string containing 'a-z','A-Z','0-9','_'.|  
|error_id|**nvarchar(36)**|Unique ID of the error associated with the request, if any.|See [sys.dm_pdw_errors &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-errors-transact-sql.md); set to NULL if no error occurred.|  
|database_id|**int**|Identifier of database used by explicit context (for example, USE DB_X).|See ID in [sys.databases &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-databases-transact-sql.md).|  
|command|**nvarchar(4000)**|Holds the full text of the request as submitted by the user.|Any valid query or request text. Queries that are longer than 4000 bytes are truncated.|  
|resource_class|**nvarchar(20)**|The resource class for this request. See related **concurrency_slots_used** in [sys.dm_pdw_resource_waits &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-resource-waits-transact-sql.md).  For more information on resource classes, see [Resource classes & workload management](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sql-data-warehouse/resource-classes-for-workload-management) |Static Resource Classes</br>staticrc10</br>staticrc20</br>staticrc30</br>staticrc40</br>staticrc50</br>staticrc60</br>staticrc70</br>staticrc80</br>            </br>Dynamic Resource Classes</br>SmallRC</br>MediumRC</br>LargeRC</br>XLargeRC|
|importance (Preview for SQL DW Gen2)|**nvarchar(32)**|The importance setting the request was submitted with. Requests with a lower importance will remain queued in suspended state, if higher importance requests are submitted.  Requests with higher importance will execute before lower importance requests that were submitted earlier.  For more information on importance, see [Workload Importance](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-importance).  |NULL</br>low</br>below_normal</br>normal (default)</br>above_normal</br>high|
  
 For information about the maximum rows retained by this view, see the Metadata section in the [Capacity limits](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-service-capacity-limits#metadata) topic.   
  
## Permissions

 Requires VIEW SERVER STATE permission.  
  
## Security

 sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests doesn't filter query results according to database-specific permissions. Logins with VIEW SERVER STATE permission can obtain results query results for all databases  
  
>[!WARNING]  
>An attacker can use sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests to retrieve information about specific database objects by simply having VIEW SERVER STATE permission and by not having a database-specific permission.  
  
## See Also

 [SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Dynamic Management Views &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sql-and-parallel-data-warehouse-dynamic-management-views.md)

Commit message:

WLM updates for preview version

docs/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-exec-requests-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/26/2019"
ms.prod: sql
ms.technology: data-warehouse
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.topic: "language-reference"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
ms.assetid: 390225cc-23e8-4051-a5f6-221e33e4c0b4
author: ronortloff
ms.author: rortloff
manager: craigg
monikerRange: ">= aps-pdw-2016 || = azure-sqldw-latest || = sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-pdw-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-pdw-md.md)]

  Holds information about all requests currently or recently active in [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)]. It lists one row per request/query.  
  
|Column Name|Data Type|Description|Range|  
|-----------------|---------------|-----------------|-----------|  
|request_id|**nvarchar(32)**|Key for this view. Unique numeric ID associated with the request.|Unique across all requests in the system.|  
|session_id|**nvarchar(32)**|Unique numeric ID associated with the session in which this query was run. See [sys.dm_pdw_exec_sessions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-exec-sessions-transact-sql.md).||  
|status|**nvarchar(32)**|Current status of the request.|'Running', 'Suspended', 'Completed', 'Canceled', 'Failed'.|  
|submit_time|**datetime**|Time at which the request was submitted for execution.|Valid **datetime** smaller or equal to the current time and start_time.|  
|start_time|**datetime**|Time at which the request execution was started.|NULL for queued requests; otherwise, valid **datetime** smaller or equal to current time.|  
|end_compile_time|**datetime**|Time at which the engine completed compiling the request.|NULL for requests that haven't been compiled yet; otherwise a valid **datetime** less than start_time and less than or equal to the current time.|
|end_time|**datetime**|Time at which the request execution completed, failed, or was canceled.|Null for queued or active requests; otherwise, a valid **datetime** smaller or equal to current time.|  
|total_elapsed_time|**int**|Time elapsed in execution since the request was started, in milliseconds.|Between 0 and the difference between start_time and end_time.</br></br> If total_elapsed_time exceeds the maximum value for an integer, total_elapsed_time will continue to be the maximum value. This condition will generate the warning "The maximum value has been exceeded."</br></br> The maximum value in milliseconds is the same as 24.8 days.|  
|label|**nvarchar(255)**|Optional label string associated with some SELECT query statements.|Any string containing 'a-z','A-Z','0-9','_'.|  
|error_id|**nvarchar(36)**|Unique ID of the error associated with the request, if any.|See [sys.dm_pdw_errors &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-errors-transact-sql.md); set to NULL if no error occurred.|  
|database_id|**int**|Identifier of database used by explicit context (for example, USE DB_X).|See ID in [sys.databases &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-databases-transact-sql.md).|  
|command|**nvarchar(4000)**|Holds the full text of the request as submitted by the user.|Any valid query or request text. Queries that are longer than 4000 bytes are truncated.|  
|resource_class|**nvarchar(20)**|The resource class for this request. See related **concurrency_slots_used** in [sys.dm_pdw_resource_waits &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-pdw-resource-waits-transact-sql.md).  For more information on resource classes, see [Resource classes & workload management](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sql-data-warehouse/resource-classes-for-workload-management) |Static Resource Classes</br>staticrc10</br>staticrc20</br>staticrc30</br>staticrc40</br>staticrc50</br>staticrc60</br>staticrc70</br>staticrc80</br>            </br>Dynamic Resource Classes</br>SmallRC</br>MediumRC</br>LargeRC</br>XLargeRC|
|importance (Workload classification is available for preview on SQL Data Warehouse Gen2. Workload Management Classification and Importance preview is for builds with a release date of April 9th, 2019 or later.  Users should avoid using builds earlier than this date for workload management testing.  To determine if your build is workload management capable, run select @@version when connected to your SQL Data Warehouse instance.)|**nvarchar(32)**|The importance setting the request was submitted with. Requests with a lower importance will remain queued in suspended state, if higher importance requests are submitted.  Requests with higher importance will execute before lower importance requests that were submitted earlier.  For more information on importance, see [Workload Importance](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-importance).  |NULL</br>low</br>below_normal</br>normal (default)</br>above_normal</br>high|
  
 For information about the maximum rows retained by this view, see the Metadata section in the [Capacity limits](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-service-capacity-limits#metadata) topic.   
  
## Permissions

 Requires VIEW SERVER STATE permission.  
  
## Security

 sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests doesn't filter query results according to database-specific permissions. Logins with VIEW SERVER STATE permission can obtain results query results for all databases  
  
>[!WARNING]  
>An attacker can use sys.dm_pdw_exec_requests to retrieve information about specific database objects by simply having VIEW SERVER STATE permission and by not having a database-specific permission.  
  
## See Also

 [SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Dynamic Management Views &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sql-and-parallel-data-warehouse-dynamic-management-views.md)
