---
title: "Database Engine Tutorials | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/13/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2014"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: performance
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: 32bd8af8-a832-4dc8-afff-01668e6b2b51
author: rothja
ms.author: jroth
manager: craigg
---
# Database Engine Tutorials
  This section contains tutorials for [!INCLUDE[ssDECurrent](../includes/ssdecurrent-md.md)].  
  
 [Tutorial: Getting Started with the Database Engine](tutorial-getting-started-with-the-database-engine.md)  
 This tutorial teaches how to connect to an instance of the [!INCLUDE[ssDE](../includes/ssde-md.md)].  
  
 [Tutorial: SQL Server Management Studio](../ssms/tutorials/tutorial-sql-server-management-studio.md)  
 This tutorial introduces you to the integrated environment for managing your [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] infrastructure. [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../includes/ssmanstudiofull-md.md)] presents a graphical interface for configuring, monitoring, and administering instances of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. It also allows you to deploy, monitor, and upgrade the data-tier components used by your applications, such as databases and data warehouses. [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../includes/ssmanstudiofull-md.md)] also provides [!INCLUDE[tsql](../includes/tsql-md.md)], MDX, DMX, and XML language editors for editing and debugging scripts.  
  
 [Tutorial: Writing Transact-SQL Statements](../t-sql/tutorial-writing-transact-sql-statements.md)  
 This tutorial teaches the fundamental skills of writing the [!INCLUDE[tsql](../includes/tsql-md.md)] statements for creating and managing objects in a [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] database.  
  
 [Tutorial: Database Engine Tuning Advisor](../tools/dta/tutorial-database-engine-tuning-advisor.md)  
 This tutorial introduces you to using the advisor to examine how queries are processed, and then review recommendations for improving query performance.  
  
 [Tutorial: Using the hierarchyid Data Type](tables/tutorial-using-the-hierarchyid-data-type.md)  
 This tutorial teaches how to convert a table to a hierarchical structure, and then manage the data in the table.  
  
 [Tutorial: Signing Stored Procedures with a Certificate](tutorial-signing-stored-procedures-with-a-certificate.md)  
 This tutorial illustrates signing stored procedures using a certificate generated by [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)].  
  
 [Tutorial: Ownership Chains and Context Switching](tutorial-ownership-chains-and-context-switching.md)  
 This tutorial uses a scenario to illustrate [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] security concepts involving ownership chains and user context switching.  
  
 [Tutorial: Administering Servers by Using Policy-Based Management](policy-based-management/tutorial-administering-servers-by-using-policy-based-management.md)  
 This tutorial teaches how to create policies that enforce site administration standards.  
  
 [Tutorial: Evaluating Best Practices by Using Policy-Based Management](../tutorials/tutorial-evaluating-best-practices-by-using-policy-based-management.md)  
 This tutorial teaches how to create policies that can be used to analyze instances of the [!INCLUDE[ssDE](../includes/ssde-md.md)] for known issues.  
  
 [Tutorial: SQL Server Backup and Restore to Windows Azure Blob Storage Service](tutorial-sql-server-backup-and-restore-to-azure-blob-storage-service.md)  
 This tutorial illustrates how to do a SQL Server backup and restore to the Windows Azure Blob Storage Service.  
  
 [Tutorial: SQL Server Data Files in Windows Azure Storage service](tutorial-use-azure-blob-storage-service-with-sql-server-2016.md)  
 This tutorial helps you understand how to store SQL Server data files in the Windows Azure Blob storage service directly.  
  
## See Also  
 [Tutorials for SQL Server 2014](../tutorials/tutorials-for-sql-server-2014.md)   
 [TechNet WIKI: SQL Server 2012 Samples](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkID=220734)  
  
  
