---
title: "Understanding the Analysis Services Deployment Script | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/13/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2014"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "analysis-services"
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Analysis Services Deployment Wizard, scripts"
  - "deploying [Analysis Services], scripts"
  - "Analysis Services deployments, scripts"
  - "scripts [Analysis Services], deployment"
ms.assetid: a63ebee9-9848-48f1-82ad-64ecf2e47019
author: minewiskan
ms.author: owend
manager: craigg
---
# Understanding the Analysis Services Deployment Script
  The XMLA deployment script generated by the [!INCLUDE[ssASnoversion](../../includes/ssasnoversion-md.md)] Deployment Wizard consists of two sections:  
  
-   The first part of the deployment script contains the commands required to create, alter, or delete the appropriate [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../includes/msconame-md.md)] [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] objects in the destination database. By default, the input files generated by the [!INCLUDE[ssASnoversion](../../includes/ssasnoversion-md.md)] project are based on an incremental deployment. As a result, the XMLA deployment script will only affect those objects that were changed or deleted.  
  
-   The second part of the deployment script contains the commands required to process only the objects created or altered on the destination server (the Process Default option) or to fully process the destination database. You can also choose to have the deployment script contain no processing commands.  
  
 The entire deployment script can execute in a single transaction or in multiple transactions. If the script executes in multiple transactions, the first part of the script executes as a single transaction, and each object is processed in its own transaction.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
>  The [!INCLUDE[ssASnoversion](../../includes/ssasnoversion-md.md)] Deployment Wizard only deploys objects into a single [!INCLUDE[ssASnoversion](../../includes/ssasnoversion-md.md)] database. It does not deploy any server level objects or data.  
  
## See Also  
 [Running the Analysis Services Deployment Wizard](running-the-analysis-services-deployment-wizard.md)   
 [Understanding the Input Files Used to Create the Deployment Script](deployment-script-files-input-used-to-create-deployment-script.md)  
  
  
