docs/t-sql/xml/with-xmlnamespaces.md, before:

---
title: "WITH XMLNAMESPACES (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/10/2016"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "sql-database"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "WITH_XMLNAMESPACES_TSQL"
  - "WITH XMLNAMESPACES"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "adding XML namespaces"
  - "XML namespace declarations [SQL Server]"
  - "clauses [SQL Server], WITH XMLNAMESPACES"
  - "WITH XMLNAMESPACES clause"
  - "declaring XML namespaces"
ms.assetid: 3b32662b-566f-454d-b7ca-e247002a9a0b
author: "douglaslMS"
ms.author: "douglasl"
manager: craigg
---
# WITH XMLNAMESPACES
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2008-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2008-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]

  Declares one or more XML namespaces.  
  
  
 ![Topic link icon](../../database-engine/configure-windows/media/topic-link.gif "Topic link icon") [Transact-SQL Syntax Conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
  
WITH XMLNAMESPACES ( <XML namespace declaration item>  
[ { , <XML namespace declaration item> }...] )   
  
<XML namespace declaration item> ::=  
<xml_namespace_uri> AS <xml_namespace_prefix>  
| <XML default namespace declaration item>  
<xml_namespace_uri> ::= <character string literal>  
```  
  
```  
  
<xml_namespace_prefix> ::= <identifier>  
```  
  
```  
  
<XML default namespace declaration item> ::=  
DEFAULT <xml_namespace_uri>  
  
```  
  
## Arguments  
 *xml_namespace_uri*  
 A Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) that identifies the XML namespace that is being declared. *xml_namespace_uri* is an SQL string.  
  
 *xml_namespace_prefix*  
 Specifies a prefix to be mapped and associated with the namespace URI value specified in *xml_namespace_uri*. *xml_namespace_prefix* must be a [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] identifier.  
  
## Remarks  
 When you use the WITH XMLNAMESPACES clause in a statement that also includes a common table expression, the WITH XMLNAMESPACES clause must precede the common table expression in the statement.  
  
 The following are general syntax rules that apply when you use the WITH XMLNAMESPACES clause:  
  
-   Each XML namespace declaration must contain at least one XML default namespace declaration item.  
  
-   Each XML namespace prefix used must be a non-colonized name (NCName) in which the colon character (:) is not part of the name.  
  
-   You cannot define a namespace prefix two times.  
  
-   XML namespace prefixes and URIs are case-sensitive.  
  
-   The XML namespace prefix `xmlns` cannot be declared.  
  
-   The XML namespace prefix `xml` cannot be overridden with a namespace, other than the namespaces URI `'http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace'`, and this URI that cannot be assigned a different prefix.  
  
-   The XML namespace prefix `xsi` cannot be redeclared when the ELEMENTS XSINIL directive is being used on the query.  
  
-   URI string values are encoded according to the current database collation code page and are internally translated to Unicode.  
  
-   The XML namespace URI will be white-space collapsed following the XSD white-space collapse rules that are used for **xs:anyURI**. Also, note that no entitization or deentitization are performed on XML namespace URI values.  
  
-   The XML namespace URI will be checked for XML 1.0 characters that are not valid, and an error will be raised if one is found (such as, U+0007).  
  
-   The XML namespace URI (after all white space is collapsed) cannot be a zero-length string or an "invalid empty namespace URI" error occurs.  
  
-   The XMLNAMESPACES keyword is reserved in the context of the WITH clause.  
  
## Examples  
 For examples, see [Add Namespaces to Queries with WITH XMLNAMESPACES](../../relational-databases/xml/add-namespaces-to-queries-with-with-xmlnamespaces.md).  
  
## See Also  
 [XQuery Language Reference &#40;SQL Server&#41;](../../xquery/xquery-language-reference-sql-server.md)

Commit message:

It is not necesary to declare the 'http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance'
Apparently the xpath processor includes the http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance by default if not specified with the [WITH XMLNAMESPACES] clause. As long as the namespace is declared in the xml itself an implicit [WITH XMLNAMESPACES('http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance' AS xsi] will be issued.

For example:
DECLARE @doc as XML = CAST ('<?xml version="1.0"?>
<note xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
<name xsi:nil="true"> </name>
<text> hello </text>
</note>
' AS XML);

SELECT @doc.query('note/name[@xsi:nil="true"]') as result;
Will return results even when the xsi namespace is not explicitly declared.

<name xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:nil="true" />

Changing the xml to not mach the standard namespace exactly causes it to not return results.

DECLARE @doc as XML = CAST ('<?xml version="1.0"?>
<note xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instanceZZZZ">
<name xsi:nil="true"> </name>
<text> hello </text>
</note>
' AS XML);

SELECT @doc.query('note/name[@xsi:nil="true"]') as result;

This is not true for all xml processors and seems like a design decision. I tested similar scenarios using the .net processors and adding the namespace to the manager is always required.

I am trying to follow the same succinct style for the documentation, although I believe examples are required to better illustrate all these behaviors.

Thank you.

docs/t-sql/xml/with-xmlnamespaces.md, after:

---
title: "WITH XMLNAMESPACES (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/10/2016"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "sql-database"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "WITH_XMLNAMESPACES_TSQL"
  - "WITH XMLNAMESPACES"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "adding XML namespaces"
  - "XML namespace declarations [SQL Server]"
  - "clauses [SQL Server], WITH XMLNAMESPACES"
  - "WITH XMLNAMESPACES clause"
  - "declaring XML namespaces"
ms.assetid: 3b32662b-566f-454d-b7ca-e247002a9a0b
author: "douglaslMS"
ms.author: "douglasl"
manager: craigg
---
# WITH XMLNAMESPACES
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2008-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2008-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]

  Declares one or more XML namespaces.  
  
  
 ![Topic link icon](../../database-engine/configure-windows/media/topic-link.gif "Topic link icon") [Transact-SQL Syntax Conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
  
WITH XMLNAMESPACES ( <XML namespace declaration item>  
[ { , <XML namespace declaration item> }...] )   
  
<XML namespace declaration item> ::=  
<xml_namespace_uri> AS <xml_namespace_prefix>  
| <XML default namespace declaration item>  
<xml_namespace_uri> ::= <character string literal>  
```  
  
```  
  
<xml_namespace_prefix> ::= <identifier>  
```  
  
```  
  
<XML default namespace declaration item> ::=  
DEFAULT <xml_namespace_uri>  
  
```  
  
## Arguments  
 *xml_namespace_uri*  
 A Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) that identifies the XML namespace that is being declared. *xml_namespace_uri* is an SQL string.  
  
 *xml_namespace_prefix*  
 Specifies a prefix to be mapped and associated with the namespace URI value specified in *xml_namespace_uri*. *xml_namespace_prefix* must be a [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] identifier.  
  
## Remarks  
 When you use the WITH XMLNAMESPACES clause in a statement that also includes a common table expression, the WITH XMLNAMESPACES clause must precede the common table expression in the statement.  
  
 The following are general syntax rules that apply when you use the WITH XMLNAMESPACES clause:  
  
-   Each XML namespace declaration must contain at least one XML default namespace declaration item.  
  
-   Each XML namespace prefix used must be a non-colonized name (NCName) in which the colon character (:) is not part of the name.  
  
-   You cannot define a namespace prefix two times.  
  
-   XML namespace prefixes and URIs are case-sensitive.  
  
-   The XML namespace prefix `xmlns` cannot be declared.  
  
-   The XML namespace prefix `xml` cannot be overridden with a namespace, other than the namespaces URI `'http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace'`, and this URI that cannot be assigned a different prefix.  
  
-   The XML namespace prefix `xsi` cannot be redeclared when the ELEMENTS XSINIL directive is being used on the query.  

-   It is not necesary to declare the 'http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance' to use xsi standard namespace. It is implicitly added by the XML/XPATH processor if not specified and xpath expressions can use the xsi prefix as long as the 'http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance' schema is properly declared in the xml document.

-   URI string values are encoded according to the current database collation code page and are internally translated to Unicode.  
  
-   The XML namespace URI will be white-space collapsed following the XSD white-space collapse rules that are used for **xs:anyURI**. Also, note that no entitization or deentitization are performed on XML namespace URI values.  

-   The XML namespace URI will be checked for XML 1.0 characters that are not valid, and an error will be raised if one is found (such as, U+0007).  
  
-   The XML namespace URI (after all white space is collapsed) cannot be a zero-length string or an "invalid empty namespace URI" error occurs.  
  
-   The XMLNAMESPACES keyword is reserved in the context of the WITH clause.  
  
## Examples  
 For examples, see [Add Namespaces to Queries with WITH XMLNAMESPACES](../../relational-databases/xml/add-namespaces-to-queries-with-with-xmlnamespaces.md).  
  
## See Also  
 [XQuery Language Reference &#40;SQL Server&#41;](../../xquery/xquery-language-reference-sql-server.md)
