---
title: Updated - Tools for SQL Server docs | Microsoft Docs
description: Display snippets of updated content for recently changed in documentation, for Tools for Microsoft SQL Server.

manager: craigg
author: MightyPen
ms.author: genemi
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: UpdArt.exe
ms.suite: sql
ms.prod_service: sql-non-specified

ms.component: tools
ms.date: 04/28/2018
---
# New and Recently Updated: Tools for SQL Server



Nearly every day Microsoft updates some of its existing articles on its [Docs.Microsoft.com](http://docs.microsoft.com/) documentation website. This article displays excerpts from recently updated articles. Links to new articles might also be listed.

This article is generated by a program that is rerun periodically. Occasionally an excerpt can appear with imperfect formatting, or as markdown from the source article. Images are never displayed here.

Recent updates are reported for the following date range and subject:



- *Date range of updates:* &nbsp; **2018-02-03** &nbsp; -to- &nbsp; **2018-04-28**
- *Subject area:* &nbsp; **Tools for SQL Server**.




&nbsp;

## New Articles Created Recently

The following links jump to new articles that have been added recently.


1. [mssql-cli command-line query tool for SQL Server](mssql-cli.md)



&nbsp;

## Updated Articles with Excerpts

This section displays the excerpts of updates gathered from articles that have recently experienced a large update.

The excerpts displayed here appear separated from their proper semantic context. Also, sometimes an excerpt is separated from important markdown syntax that surrounds it in the actual article. Therefore these excerpts are for general guidance only. The excerpts only enable you to know whether your interests warrant taking the time to click and visit the actual article.

For these and other reasons, do not copy code from these excerpts, and do not take as exact truth any text excerpt. Instead, visit the actual article.





&nbsp;

<a name="compactupdatedlist"/>

### Compact List of Articles Updated Recently

This compact list provides links to all the updated articles that are listed in the Excerpts section.

1. [bcp Utility](#TitleNum_1)




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

<a name="TitleNum_1"/>

### 1. &nbsp; [bcp Utility](bcp-utility.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-25* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 

<!-- Source markdown line 189.  ms.author= "sstein".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 c85e6c6ff13ad20f432ead67febfc48c784f3f9a 27de3822192fc64f0d99b4dbc21f05a3e4def186  (PR=5676  ,  Filename=bcp-utility.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\tools\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=a85a46312acf8b5a59a8a900310cf088369c4150) -->



**-G**<a name="G"></a>
 This switch is used by the client when connecting to Azure SQL Database or Azure SQL Data Warehouse to specify that the user be authenticated using Azure Active Directory authentication. The -G switch requires [version 14.0.3008.27 or later](docs/tools/http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=825643). To determine your version, execute bcp -v. For more information, see [Use Azure Active Directory Authentication for authentication with SQL Database or SQL Data Warehouse](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sql-database/sql-database-aad-authentication).

> [!TIP]
>  To check if your version of bcp includes support for Azure Active Directory Authentication (AAD) type **bcp --** (bcp\<space>\<dash>\<dash>) and verify that you see -G in the list of available arguments.

- **Azure Active Directory Username and Password:**

    When you want to use an Azure Active Directory user name and password, you can provide the **-G** option and also use the user name and password by providing the **-U** and **-P** options.

    The following example exports data using Azure AD Username and Password where user and password is an AAD credential. The example exports table `bcptest` from database `testdb` from Azure server `aadserver.database.windows.net` and stores the data in file `c:\last\data1.dat`:
```
    bcp bcptest out "c:\last\data1.dat" -c -t -S aadserver.database.windows.net -d testdb -G -U alice@aadtest.onmicrosoft.com -P xxxxx
```

    The following example imports data using Azure AD Username and Password where user and password is an AAD credential. The example imports data from file `c:\last\data1.dat` into table `bcptest` for database `testdb` on Azure server `aadserver.database.windows.net` using Azure AD User/Password:
```
    bcp bcptest in "c:\last\data1.dat" -c -t -S aadserver.database.windows.net -d testdb -G -U alice@aadtest.onmicrosoft.com -P xxxxx
```



- **Azure Active Directory Integrated**

    For Azure Active Directory Integrated authentication, provide the **-G** option without a user name or password. This configuration assumes that the current Windows user account (the account the bcp command is running under) is federated with Azure AD:







## Similar articles about new or updated articles

This section lists very similar articles for recently updated articles in other subject areas, within our public GitHub.com repository: [MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs/).



#### Subject areas that *do* have new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (11+6): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Advanced Analytics for SQL** docs](../advanced-analytics/new-updated-advanced-analytics.md)
- [New + Updated (18+0): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Analysis Services for SQL** docs](../analysis-services/new-updated-analysis-services.md)
- [New + Updated (218+14): **Connect to SQL** docs](../connect/new-updated-connect.md)
- [New + Updated (14+0): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Database Engine for SQL** docs](../database-engine/new-updated-database-engine.md)
- [New + Updated (3+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Integration Services for SQL** docs](../integration-services/new-updated-integration-services.md)
- [New + Updated (3+3): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Linux for SQL** docs](../linux/new-updated-linux.md)
- [New + Updated (7+10): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Relational Databases for SQL** docs](../relational-databases/new-updated-relational-databases.md)
- [New + Updated (0+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Reporting Services for SQL** docs](../reporting-services/new-updated-reporting-services.md)
- [New + Updated (1+3): &nbsp; &nbsp; **SQL Operations Studio** docs](../sql-operations-studio/new-updated-sql-operations-studio.md)
- [New + Updated (2+3): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Microsoft SQL Server** docs](../sql-server/new-updated-sql-server.md)
- [New + Updated (1+1): &nbsp; &nbsp; **SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)** docs](../ssdt/new-updated-ssdt.md)
- [New + Updated (5+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)** docs](../ssms/new-updated-ssms.md)
- [New + Updated (0+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Transact-SQL** docs](../t-sql/new-updated-t-sql.md)
- [New + Updated (1+1): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Tools for SQL** docs](../tools/new-updated-tools.md)



#### Subject areas that do *not* have any new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (0+0): **Analytics Platform System for SQL** docs](../analytics-platform-system/new-updated-analytics-platform-system.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Quality Services for SQL** docs](../data-quality-services/new-updated-data-quality-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Mining Extensions (DMX) for SQL** docs](../dmx/new-updated-dmx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Master Data Services (MDS) for SQL** docs](../master-data-services/new-updated-master-data-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Multidimensional Expressions (MDX) for SQL** docs](../mdx/new-updated-mdx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) for SQL** docs](../odbc/new-updated-odbc.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **PowerShell for SQL** docs](../powershell/new-updated-powershell.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Samples for SQL** docs](../samples/new-updated-samples.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA)** docs](../ssma/new-updated-ssma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **XQuery for SQL** docs](../xquery/new-updated-xquery.md)

