---
title: "O2SS0101: Invalid parameter omitting (Error)"
description: "Covers the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot get description for packaged function or a packaged procedure call when a parameter has been omitted."
author: cpichuka
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.devlang: "sql"
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: "1/22/2020"
ms.author: cpichuka
---

# O2SS0101: Invalid parameter omitting (Error)

This article covers the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot get description for packaged function or a packaged procedure call when a parameter has been omitted.

## Background

A package is an encapsulated collection of related program objects (for example, procedures, functions, variables, constants, cursors, and exceptions) stored together in the database. To execute a function or procedure that is defined in a package, you'll have to prefix the function name (through required parameters) along with the package name.

Whenever you invoke a function or procedure that is defined in a package omitting required parameters, SSMA generated an error.

## Example

Consider the below example, where we have created a package `MATH_PKG` that contains a function `GET_SUM`.

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE MATH_PKG AS
    FUNCTION GET_SUM (n1 INT, n2 INT DEFAULT 0, n3 INT DEFAULT 0) RETURN INT;
END MATH_PKG;

CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE BODY MATH_PKG AS
    FUNCTION GET_SUM (n1 INT, n2 INT DEFAULT 0, n3 INT DEFAULT 0)
    RETURN INT
    IS
    BEGIN
        RETURN n1 + n2 + n3;
    END;
END MATH_PKG;
```

PL/SQL statement that calls the function may look as following:

```sql
DECLARE
    addition INT;
BEGIN
    addition := MATH_PKG.GET_SUM();
END;
```

When SSMA tries to convert the above statement, it cannot resolve the function `GET_SUM` that is invoked without required parameter or wrong number of arguments, hence generates the following error message:

> O2SS0101: Invalid parameter omitting

## Possible remedies

The solution of the above error is to rewrite the code in Oracle. Actually in Oracle when you call the above package in the statement, it also raises the PL/SQL error of wrong number or types of arguments in call to `GET_SUM`.

So you have to rectify the problem in Oracle itself by assigning optional value to parameter within a function. By doing this we are matching the number and types of argument required to invoke the function. To make a parameter optional you can set a default value - in the case if the value is not passed, the default value will be taken.

Below is the rewrite code of an above Oracle example - below we are assigning default value `(n1 INT DEFAULT 0)` to the first parameter of `GET_SUM` function:

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE MATH_PKG AS
   FUNCTION GET_SUM (n1 INT DEFAULT 0, n2 INT DEFAULT 0, n3 INT DEFAULT 0) RETURN INT;
END MATH_PKG;

CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE BODY MATH_PKG AS
   FUNCTION GET_SUM (n1 INT DEFAULT 0, n2 INT DEFAULT 0, n3 INT DEFAULT 0)
   RETURN INT
   IS
   BEGIN
       RETURN n1 + n2 + n3;
   END;
END MATH_PKG;
```

SSMA will now properly convert the code.

## Related conversion messages

* O2SS0102: Procedure (function) call is missing a parameter
* [O2SS0104: Unpackaged function call is missing a parameter](o2ss0104.md)
