---
title: "O2SS0188: Sequence not found in source metadata (Error)"
description: "Covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot convert a statement that contains reference to an Oracle SEQUENCE object."
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 05/08/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: reference
ms.collection:
  - sql-migration-content
ms.devlang: sql
---

# O2SS0188: Sequence not found in source metadata (Error)

This article covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle can't convert a statement that contains reference to an Oracle `SEQUENCE` object.

## Background

A `SEQUENCE` is an Oracle object that is used to generate an ordered number sequence. This is useful when users need to create a unique number to act as a primary key or foreign key in any table.

SSMA displays the error message, if it isn't able to locate the sequence object in the SSMA source metadata for the project.

There are two possibilities leading to the scenario where SSMA isn't able to find the sequence in the source metadata:

1. The `SEQUENCE` object was excluded from the import operation when connecting to the Oracle database.
1. The `SEQUENCE` object is located on a remote database by using a database link.

## Example

Consider the following example:

```sql
INSERT INTO employees (employeeid, lastname, Firstname)
VALUES(SQ1.nextval, 'David', 'Miller');
```

This query refers to the sequence `SQ1` created in Oracle, which SSMA tries to migrate to [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. But if this SSMA isn't able to find the reference of this sequence, it produces the following error:

> O2SS0188: Sequence not found in source metadata

## Possible remedies

This error might happen due to some security features in Oracle or some issues while connecting with the Oracle database. To resolve this, you need to ensure that SSMA is properly connected to the Oracle database and all objects from the Oracle database like triggers, procedures, and particularly sequences are visible under the **Oracle Metadata Explorer**.

In the previous example, make sure that the SSMA is properly linked with the Oracle Database, by referring the **Oracle Metadata Explorer**. If the corresponding required sequence isn't visible under **Sequences** node in the Metadata Explorer - reconnect to the Oracle with `DBA` permissions. The referred sequence should then be visible in the **Oracle Metadata Explorer**.

If the `SEQUENCE` that you reference is in another database using a database link, SSMA doesn't support the direct migration of the sequence for shared use in [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. Instead, recreate the `SEQUENCE` on the source database, remove the database link reference in the query, and then use SSMA to convert the `SEQUENCE` into the [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] database.

## Related conversion messages

- O2SS0214: Column has bound sequence, but sequence was not found in source metadata
- [O2SS0217: Call to identity sequence CURRVAL not supported (Error)](o2ss0217.md)
- [O2SS0221: Call to identity sequence NEXTVAL not supported (Error)](o2ss0221.md)
