---
title: "O2SS0351: Conversion of collection method not supported (Error)"
description: "Describes why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle does not support the conversion of some of the collection method."
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 05/08/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: reference
ms.collection:
  - sql-migration-content
ms.devlang: sql
---

# O2SS0351: Conversion of collection method not supported (Error)

This article describes why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle doesn't support the conversion of some of the collection method.

## Background

A collection is an ordered group of elements, all of the same type. It's a general concept that encompasses lists, arrays, and other familiar data types. You can use the methods `EXISTS`, `COUNT`, `LIMIT`, `FIRST`, `LAST`, `PRIOR`, `NEXT`, `EXTEND`, `TRIM`, and `DELETE` to manage collections in Oracle whose size is unknown or varies.

Whenever you make a reference of `LIMIT` method in collection query, SSMA isn't able to resolve that method. Hence, usage of this collection method results in an error message. In Oracle, `LIMIT` returns the maximum number of elements that array can contain (which you must specify in its type definition).

## Example

Consider the following example:

```sql
DECLARE
    TYPE VARRAYTEST IS VARRAY(5) OF VARCHAR2(25);
    vTest VARRAYTEST;
BEGIN
    vTest := VARRAYTEST('text1', 'text2', 'text3');
    DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('COLLECTION LIMIT IS -- ' || vTest.LIMIT);
END;
```

When you try to convert the previous code in SSMA, it generates the following error message:

> O2SS0351: Conversion of collection method not supported

## Possible remedies

The solution to the previous error is to modify the code in [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] because `LIMIT` method isn't relevant in the way SSMA emulates the collection. When SSMA converts the array collection element of Oracle to [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], it allocates the maximum size to the collection element and [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] allows dynamic allocation to the collection at the run time.

For the previous example, replace the `LIMIT` method with `Count` method of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] to get the number of elements in the collection:

```sql
BEGIN
    DECLARE
        @CollectionIndexInt$TYPE varchar(max) = ' VARRAY OF STRING',
        @vTest dbo.CollectionIndexInt

    SET @vTest =
        dbo.CollectionIndexInt::[Null]
            .SetType(@CollectionIndexInt$TYPE)
            .AddString('text1')
            .AddString('text2')
            .AddString('text3')

    PRINT 'COLLECTION LIMIT IS -- ' + ISNULL(CAST(@vTest.Count AS nvarchar(max)), '')
END
```

## Related conversion messages

- [O2SS0408: Collection or record type is not supported (Error)](o2ss0408.md)
- O2SS0323: Conversion of collection method not supported
- O2SS0408: Collection or Record Type is not supported
