---
title: "O2SS0205: Unable to convert PRAGMA AUTONOMUS_TRANSACTION (Error)"
description: "Covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle does not convert the PL/SQL blocks containing PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION statement on the block level (i.e. standalone BEGIN ... END)."
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 05/08/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: reference
ms.collection:
  - sql-migration-content
ms.devlang: sql
---

# O2SS0205: Unable to convert PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION (Error)

This article covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle doesn't convert the PL/SQL blocks containing `PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION` statement on the block level (that is, standalone `BEGIN ... END`).

## Background

*Autonomous Transactions* allow you to create a new sub-transaction that might commit or roll back changes independent of the parent transaction. `PRAGMA` refers to a compiler directive, and is used to provide an instruction to the compiler.

In Oracle, when you define a PL/SQL block as an *Autonomous Transaction*, it isolates the DML in that block from the caller's transaction context. The block becomes an independent transaction started by another transaction, referred to as the main transaction. To mark a PL/SQL block as an autonomous transaction, include the following statement in your declaration section:

```sql
PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION;
```

In the previous statement, `PRAGMA` can perform an autonomous transaction within a PL/SQL block between a `BEGIN` and `END` statement without affecting the entire transaction.

Whenever SSMA tries to convert the PL/SQL block with `PRAGMA AUTONOMUS_TRANSACTION` statement (that is, standalone `BEGIN ... END`), it doesn't support `PRAGMA` on the block level. This is because SSMA can't find its corresponding object in [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. But SSMA can convert autonomous transactions at the routine level (that is, for procedures, functions etc.).

## Example

Consider the following example:

```sql
DECLARE
    PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION;
BEGIN
    FOR i IN 3 .. 10 LOOP
        INSERT INTO at_test (id, description)
        VALUES (i, 'Description for ' || i);
    END LOOP;

    COMMIT;
END;
```

When SSMA tries to convert the previous PL/SQL block, it gives following error:

> O2SS0205: Unable to convert PRAGMA AUTONOMUS_TRANSACTION

## Possible remedies

To convert a PL/SQL block with an `AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION` statement, you should wrap the code into a procedure, function, or trigger. In the previous example, you can define a procedure to insert the data into the `at_test` table as an autonomous transaction. The solution to the previous issue is as follows:

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE Insert_Data
AS
    PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION;
BEGIN
    FOR i IN 3 .. 10 LOOP
        INSERT INTO at_test (id, description)
        VALUES (i, 'Description for ' || i);
    END LOOP;

    COMMIT;
END;
```

## How SSMA converts an autonomous transaction

To convert the previous *Autonomous Transaction* statement, SSMA uses the extended stored procedure emulator `xp_ora2ms_exec2_ex`. After SSMA creates the autonomous block as separate procedure, it calls this procedure using the `xp_ora2ms_exec2_ex` emulator as shown in the following example.

```sql
BEGIN
    DECLARE
        @active_spid INT,
        @login_time DATETIME

    SET @active_spid = ssma_oracle.get_active_spid()
    SET @login_time = ssma_oracle.get_active_login_time()

    EXECUTE master.dbo.xp_ora2ms_exec2_ex
        @active_spid,
        @login_time,
        DB_NAME(),
        N'DBO',
        N'INSERT_DATA$IMPL',
        N'false'
END
```

Internally `xp_ora2ms_exec2_ex` connects back to the same instance of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using current credentials and executes the given stored procedure (`INSERT_DATA$IMPL` in the previous sample). Since it's a separate connection, modifications done by the executed stored procedure can be committed or rolled back separately from the calling transaction.

Since new connection has to be opened to [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], such conversion is relatively slow, compared to native Oracle implementations. Whenever possible, rewrite the code without the *Autonomous Transaction*.

## Related conversion messages

- O2SS0292: PRAGMA AUTONOMUS_TRANSACTION converted
- O2SS0308: PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION ignored
