---
title: "O2SS0179: Packaged Variable (constant) data type not recognized (Error)"
description: "Covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle does not convert few of the Oracle data types (like MLSLABEL) when a variable of that type is used in a package."
author: cpichuka
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.devlang: "sql"
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: "1/22/2020"
ms.author: cpichuka
---

# O2SS0179: Packaged Variable (constant) data type not recognized (Error)

This article covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle does not convert few of the Oracle data types (like `MLSLABEL`) when a variable of that type is used in a package.

## Background

The `MLSLABEL` data type is used by Trusted Oracle and is used to store the binary format of an operating system label. Trusted Oracle uses a label to control access to information. The maximum width of an `MLSLABEL` column is 255 bytes. Any labels that are valid on your operating system can be inserted into an `MLSLABEL` column. When you insert a label into an `MLSLABEL` column, Trusted Oracle implicitly converts the data into the binary format of the label.

To store packaged variables, SSMA uses special functions (like `ssma_oracle.set_pv_varchar`) to retrieve values from `ssma_oracle.db_storage` table. For more information on how SSMA converts package variables, see [Emulating Oracle Package Variables](../emulate-package-variables.md) article.

Whenever SSMA tries to convert unsupported data types it generates an error, because SSMA cannot find its corresponding type in the SQL Server.

## Example

When SSMA tries to convert the following PL/SQL block

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE MLSLABEL_PKG
IS
    label mlslabel;
END MLSLABEL_PKG;

CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE BODY MLSLABEL_PKG
IS
BEGIN
    label := null;
END MLSLABEL_PKG;
```

it generates the following error:

> O2SS0179: Packaged variable (constant) data type not recognized

## Possible remedies

You should consider replacing the unsupported data types with any other supported data types (like `VARCHAR`) as shown below:

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE MLSLABEL_PKG
IS
    label Varchar(255);
END MLSLABEL_PKG;

CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE BODY MLSLABEL_PKG
IS
BEGIN
    label := null;
END MLSLABEL_PKG;
```

## Related conversion messages

* O2SS0180: Packaged variable(constant) data type not recognized
* [O2SS0350: Conversion of packaged variable(constant) data type is not supported in this release](o2ss0350.md)
