---
title: "O2SS0334: BULK COLLECT INTO clause not converted (Error)"
description: "Covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot convert a statement that contains the BULK COLLECT INTO clause."
author: cpichuka
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.devlang: "sql"
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: "1/22/2020"
ms.author: cpichuka
---

# O2SS0334: BULK COLLECT INTO clause not converted (Error)

This article covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot convert a statement that contains the `BULK COLLECT INTO` clause (a collection category query).

## Background

A collection is an ordered group of elements, all of the same type. It is a general concept that encompasses lists, arrays, and other familiar data types. Each element has a unique subscript that determines its position in the collection. The `BULK COLLECT INTO` clause binds the output of the query to the collection, resulting in less communication between the PL/SQL and SQL engines.

SSMA provides path for a migration of Oracle collections, however, when the list count doesn't match the `BULK COLLECT INTO` collection set, SSMA is unable to make the conversion and generates an error message.

## Example

Consider the following example of `dept` table having two columns (`deptno` and `dname`) in it and the `SELECT` statement uses an asterisk:

```sql
DECLARE
    TYPE test_deptno IS TABLE OF number;
    var_deptno test_deptno;
BEGIN
    SELECT
        *
    BULK COLLECT INTO
        var_deptno
    FROM
        dept;
END;
```

When you try to convert the above code in SSMA, it generates the following error message:

> O2SS0334: BULK COLLECT INTO clause not converted

## Possible remedies

The solution is to normalize the number of columns listed in the `SELECT` clause with the number of variables used in `BULK COLLECT INTO` clause. In the example, the asterisk will expand into two columns from the `dept` table whereas there is only one variable in the `BULK COLLECT INTO` clause.

To successfully migrate the example, fetch only the `deptno` column from the `dept` table, or add another variable in `BULK COLLECT INTO` clause, depending on your requirement. The example below shows how to modify query by adding additional variable into `BULK COLLECT INTO` clause:

```sql
DECLARE
    TYPE test_deptno IS TABLE OF number;
    TYPE test_dname IS TABLE OF varchar2(20);
    var_deptno test_deptno;
    var_dname test_dname;
BEGIN
    SELECT
        deptno,
        dname
    BULK COLLECT INTO
        var_deptno,
        var_dname
    FROM
        dept;
END;
```

## Related conversion messages

* [O2SS0351: The conversion of collection method not supported](o2ss0351.md)
* [O2SS0352: SELECT statements with BULK COLLECT INTO clause and DISTINCT are not supported](o2ss0352.md)
* [O2SS0407: Unsupported collection key type](o2ss0407.md)
