---
title: "O2SS0157: Dynamic string for OPEN...FOR not converted (Error)"
description: "Describes why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle does not convert the dynamic string within an OPEN...FOR statement."
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 05/08/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: reference
ms.collection:
  - sql-migration-content
ms.devlang: sql
---

# O2SS0157: Dynamic string for OPEN...FOR not converted (Error)

This article describes why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle doesn't convert the dynamic string within an `OPEN ... FOR` statement.

## Background

The `OPEN-FOR` statement implements the query associated with a cursor variable, and assigns database resources to process the query and recognizes the result set. A `CURSOR` is a mechanism by which you can assign a name to a `SELECT` statement and manipulate the information within that SQL statement.

In order to convert the `OPEN ... FOR` cursor using SSMA, first you need to set the parameters in the SSMA project settings. Details about the relevant project settings are available in the article about [O2SS0094](o2ss0094.md) error message.

If you have any dynamic string in your code, the SSMA tool generates an error message.

## Example

Consider the following example that you might find in an Oracle procedure:

```sql
DECLARE
    emp_refcur SYS_REFCURSOR;
BEGIN
    OPEN
        emp_refcur
    FOR
        'SELECT ename FROM emp';

    CLOSE emp_refcur;
END;
```

When you try to convert the previous code in SSMA, it generates the following error message:

> O2SS0157: Dynamic string for OPEN...FOR not converted

## Possible remedies

There are two possible remedies for correcting the dynamic string error.

### First approach

Remove the single quotes from the dynamic query to make it a static query and run SSMA against the code again.

Here's the modified Oracle code:

```sql
DECLARE
    emp_refcur SYS_REFCURSOR;
BEGIN
    OPEN
        emp_refcur
    FOR
        SELECT ename FROM emp;

    CLOSE emp_refcur;
END;
```

SSMA generates the following block of Transact-SQL code:

```sql
BEGIN
    DECLARE
        @emp_refcur CURSOR

    SET @emp_refcur =
        CURSOR FOR
            SELECT EMP.ENAME
            FROM dbo.EMP

    OPEN @emp_refcur
END
```

### Second approach

Another way to solve this error is to use the natural approach followed in [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], which is returning the result set directly from executing stored procedures. In this approach, unlike Oracle, there's no need of using any cursor as output parameters.

To demonstrate this, let's take the modified code from the first approach:

```sql
DECLARE
    emp_refcur SYS_REFCURSOR;
BEGIN
    OPEN
        emp_refcur
    FOR
        SELECT ename FROM emp;

    CLOSE emp_refcur;
END;
```

SSMA generates the SQL code that returns a cursor, which carries the reference of the values in the `ename` column of the `emp` table.

[!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] stored procedures are designed to return one or more result sets without having to define a cursor to handle the results. By executing the query used for the Oracle cursor inside of the stored procedure, you can process the result set in your application code.

Consider the following Transact-SQL stored procedure that can emulate the original Oracle dynamic SQL example:

```sql
ALTER PROCEDURE dbo.P_CURSOR_PROC
AS
BEGIN
    DECLARE
        @query nvarchar(max)

    SET @query = 'SELECT ename FROM emp'

    EXECUTE sp_executesql @query
END
```

## Related conversion messages

- [O2SS0094: Unable to convert CURSOR as parameter (Error)](o2ss0094.md)
- [O2SS0245: CURSOR conversion in return statements not supported (Error)](o2ss0245.md)
- O2SS0330: Unable to convert CLOSE statement
- O2SS0331: Unable to convert FETCH statement
