---
title: "O2SS0104: Unpackaged function call is missing a parameter (Error)"
description: "Describes why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle does not convert the function call when number of parameters passed is less than the defined number of parameters."
author: cpichuka
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.devlang: "sql"
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: "1/22/2020"
ms.author: cpichuka
---

# O2SS0104: Unpackaged function call is missing a parameter (Error)

This article describes why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle does not convert the function call when number of parameters passed is less than the defined number of parameters.

## Background

When calling functions in Oracle, you can pass parameters by using:

* Positional notation. Parameters are specified in the order in which they are declared in the procedure.
* Named notation. The name of each parameter is specified along with its value. An arrow (`=>`) serves as the association operator. The order of the parameters is not significant.
* Mixed notation. The first parameters are specified with positional notation, and then they are switched to named notation for the subsequent parameters.

Whenever parameter is omitted in a stand-alone function call, SSMA generates an error message.

## Example

Consider the example below, in which we have created a function and passing one default parameter in that function:

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION MULTIPLICATION (
   a int,
   b int DEFAULT 1
)
RETURN NUMBER
AS
BEGIN
 RETURN a*b;
END;
/

SELECT MULTIPLICATION(20) FROM DUAL;
```

When you try to convert the above code in SSMA, it generates the following error message:

> O2SS0104: Unpackaged function call is missing a parameter

## Possible remedies

To resolve this error, you must ensure that the SSMA project settings are properly configured:

1. Navigate to the **Tools** menu, and select **Project Settings**.
2. Then, click the **General** tab.
3. Under **Statements Conversion**, change **Convert calls to subprograms that use default arguments** to **Yes**.

## Related conversion messages

* O2SS0102: Procedure (function) call is missing a parameter
* O2SS0105: Function (procedure) call is missing a parameter
