---
title: "O2SS0094: Unable to convert CURSOR as parameter (Error)"
description: "Covers the reason why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot convert a procedure that contains the CURSOR as parameter."
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 05/08/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: reference
ms.collection:
  - sql-migration-content
ms.devlang: sql
---

# O2SS0094: Unable to convert CURSOR as parameter (Error)

This article covers the reason why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle can't convert a procedure that contains the `CURSOR` as parameter.

## Background

A cursor is a mechanism by which you can assign a name to a `SELECT` statement and manipulate the information within that SQL statement. Cursors are used by database programmers to process individual rows returned by database system queries.

When SSMA converts a procedure or function containing the `REF CURSOR` type passed as an argument, it generates an error message.

## Example

Consider the following example:

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE p_cursor_proc
(
    emp_refcur OUT SYS_REFCURSOR
)
IS
BEGIN
    OPEN
        emp_refcur
    FOR
        SELECT deptno
        FROM dept;
END;
```

When you try to convert the previous code in SSMA, it generates the following error message:

> O2SS0038: Hierarchical query not converted

## Possible remedies

To resolve this error, you should perform the following steps:

1. In SSMA, navigate to **Tools** menu and select **Project Settings**.

2. Then, select the **General** tab.

3. Select **Yes** for the **Convert OPEN-FOR statements for REF CURSOR OUT parameters** option, apply these settings, and then, select **OK**.

4. When you try to convert the query again after making the change, it converts successfully.

The SSMA conversion option **Convert OPEN-FOR statements for REF CURSOR OUT parameters** is used because there's an ambiguity when a `REF CURSOR` output parameter is opened in the procedure. The `REF CURSOR` might be fetched in the caller procedure or used directly by the application (SSMA can handle this scenario if the option is set to **Yes**).

> [!NOTE]
> After converting this query, SSMA generates a warning message `O2SS0259: CURSOR type was converted to VARCHAR (8000)`. You can generally ignore this warning.

## Related conversion messages

- [O2SS0245: CURSOR conversion in return statements not supported (Error)](o2ss0245.md)
