---
title: "O2SS0407: Unsupported collection key type (Error)"
description: "Covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot convert some of the statements that have the collection or records datatype."
author: cpichuka
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.devlang: "sql"
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: "1/22/2020"
ms.author: cpichuka
---

# O2SS0407: Unsupported collection key type (Error)

This article covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot convert some of the statements that have the collection or records datatype. This article covers the scenario where SSMA identifies unused code in an Oracle database.

## Background

A collection is an ordered group of elements, all of the same type. It is a general concept that encompasses lists, arrays, and other familiar data types. Each element has a unique subscript that determines its position in the collection. When using a nested type collection, the key can either be int (default) or string type.

SSMA provides a migration path for Oracle collections. However, SSMA does not support the collection key besides integer and string. So when SSMA encounters any collection variable with index key other than integer and string, it generates the error message.

## Example

Consider the following example of having `number_colln_dec_index`, which is a user defined type indexed by `DECIMAL`. With this collection type, an object, `money_index` is created.

```sql
DECLARE
    TYPE number_colln_dec_index IS TABLE OF NUMBER INDEX BY DECIMAL;
    money_index number_colln_dec_index;
BEGIN
    NULL;
END;
```

When you try to convert the above code in SSMA, it generates the following error message:

> O2SS0407: Unsupported collection key type

## Possible remedies

The general solution for this kind of problem is to replace the index key with either integer or any supported string type, like `VARCHAR2`. For our example, since the table is of type `NUMBER`, replacing the index key `DECIMAL` with `INTEGER` would allow SSMA to convert the schema successfully.

```sql
DECLARE
    TYPE number_colln_dec_index IS TABLE OF NUMBER INDEX BY INTEGER;
    money_index number_colln_dec_index;
BEGIN
    NULL;
END;
```

## Related conversion messages

* [O2SS0334: BULK COLLECT INTO Clause not converted](o2ss0334.md)
* [O2SS0351: The conversion of collection method not supported](o2ss0351.md)
* [O2SS0352: SELECT statements with BULK COLLECT INTO clause and DISTINCT are not supported](o2ss0352.md)
