---
title: "O2SS0021: Statement with ROWNUM not converted (Error)"
description: "Covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot convert a statement that contains the Oracle ROWNUM pseudocolumn."
author: cpichuka
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.devlang: "sql"
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: "1/22/2020"
ms.author: cpichuka
---

# O2SS0021: Statement with ROWNUM not converted (Error)

This article covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot convert a statement that contains the Oracle `ROWNUM` pseudocolumn.

## Background

The Oracle `ROWNUM` returns a number indicating the order in which a row was selected from a table. The first row selected has a `ROWNUM` of `1`; the second row has a `ROWNUM` of `2`, and so on.

When converting the `ROWNUM` pseudocolumn, SSMA provides two forms of emulation:

 1. With the `TOP` keyword of the `SELECT` statement, if this pseudocolumn is used only to limit the size of the result set.
 2. With the `ROW_NUMBER()` function if the row numbers appear in a `SELECT` list.

There are two cases where SSMA decides that it cannot convert the `ROWNUM` pseudocolumn to SQL Server and hence, generates the `O2SS0021` error message:

**Scenario 1:** `ROWNUM` is included as part of a complex `WHERE` clause.

**Scenario 2:** `ROWNUM` is used in a `WHERE` clause like this: `WHERE ROWNUM > {positive integer}`.

## Possible remedies

### Scenario 1: `ROWNUM` is included as part of a complex `WHERE` clause

Consider the following example:

```sql
DELETE
    FROM employees
WHERE
    ROWNUM - 1 <= 11 + 1
    AND employeeid > 10;
```

The solution is to simplify the expression for the `ROWNUM` to be `ROWNUM <= 11`. The end result would translate to use the `TOP` clause. Below is the simplified query:

```sql
DELETE
    FROM employees
WHERE
    ROWNUM <= 11
    AND employeeid > 10;
```

Such query will be converted by SSMA as following:

```sql
DELETE TOP(11)
    [dbo].[EMPLOYEES]
WHERE
    [EMPLOYEES].[EMPLOYEEID] > 10
```

In the next example SSMA does not know how to parse `ROWNUM` with the `IN` clause:

```sql
DELETE
    FROM employees
WHERE
    ROWNUM in (1, 2, 3, 4);
```

Rather than attempting to translate this literally, you should consider using a `WHERE` clause that uses the primary key or a unique identifier, especially when there is no `ORDER BY` clause. For example, use the primary key column `employeeid` instead of `ROWNUM` as follows:

```sql
DELETE
    FROM employees
WHERE
    employeeid IN (1, 2, 3, 4);
```

### Scenario 2: `ROWNUM` is used in a `WHERE` clause like this: `WHERE ROWNUM > {positive integer}`

Consider the following example:

```sql
SELECT
    employeeid
FROM
    employees
WHERE
    ROWNUM > 2
    OR employeeid > 8;
```

Whenever you are using `ROWNUM > {positive integer}`, the expression is always evaluated to `false`. SSMA will report the problem using error `O2SS0021`. Simply remove the `ROWNUM > 2` expression to correct the problem.

## Related conversion messages

* O2SS0039: ROWNUM pseudocolumn cannot be converted
* O2SS0081: Unsupported asterisk and ROWNUM in SELECT statements
* [O2SS0099: ROWNUM in ORDER BY clause is not supported](o2ss0099.md)
* O2SS0412: ROWNUM with GROUPING SETS cannot be converted

In most of these situations, consider what the query is trying to accomplish and rewrite it to use the `ROW_NUMBER()` emulation, `TOP` clause, or use a unique expression for your `WHERE`, `GROUP BY`, or `ORDER BY` clauses.
