---
title: "O2SS0099: ROWNUM in ORDER BY clause is not supported (Error)"
description: "Covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle cannot convert a statement that contains the Oracle ROWNUM in ORDER BY clause."
author: cpichuka
ms.author: cpichuka
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 05/08/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: ssma
ms.topic: reference
ms.custom:
  - sql-migration-content
ms.devlang: sql
---

# O2SS0099: ROWNUM in ORDER BY clause is not supported (Error)

This article covers some of the reasons why SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) for Oracle can't convert a statement that contains the Oracle `ROWNUM` in `ORDER BY` clause.

## Background

The Oracle `ROWNUM` pseudocolumn returns a number indicating the order in which a row was selected from a table. The first row selected has a `ROWNUM` of `1`; the second row has a `ROWNUM` of `2`, and so on.

When SSMA converts the `ROWNUM` in `ORDER BY` clause, it uses the `ROW_NUMBER()` emulation technique in most cases without error. However, if the `ORDER BY` clause is used as part of a `UNION` query, SSMA generates an error message.

## Example

Consider the following example:

```sql
SELECT city
FROM customers

UNION

SELECT city
FROM employees
ORDER BY ROWNUM;
```

When you try to convert the previous code in SSMA, it generates the following error message:

> O2SS0099: ROWNUM in ORDER BY clause is not supported

## Possible remedies

The solution is to simplify the expression by creating a sub query using parentheses. Creating the sub query separates the `ROWNUM` in the `ORDER BY` clause with the `UNION` clause making it a simpler expression.

Here's an example of the simplified query:

```sql
SELECT
    city
FROM
    (SELECT city FROM customers
     UNION
     SELECT city FROM employees)
ORDER BY
    ROWNUM;
```

## Related conversion messages

- [O2SS0021: Statement with ROWNUM not converted (Error)](o2ss0021.md)
- O2SS0039: `ROWNUM` pseudocolumn cannot be converted
- O2SS0081: Unsupported asterisk and `ROWNUM` in `SELECT` statements
- O2SS0412: `ROWNUM` with `GROUPING SETS` cannot be converted

In most of these situations, consider what the query is trying to accomplish and rewrite it to use the `ROW_NUMBER()` emulation, `TOP` clause, or use a unique expression for your `WHERE`, `GROUP BY`, or `ORDER BY` clauses.
