---
title: "sp_droparticle (Transact-SQL)"
description: sp_droparticle drops an article from a snapshot or transactional publication.
author: markingmyname
ms.author: maghan
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 08/22/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: replication
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords:
  - "sp_droparticle_TSQL"
  - "sp_droparticle"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "sp_droparticle"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
---
# sp_droparticle (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [SQL Server SQL MI](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdbmi.md)]

Drops an article from a snapshot or transactional publication. An article can't be removed if one or more subscriptions to it exist. This stored procedure is executed at the Publisher on the publication database.

:::image type="icon" source="../../includes/media/topic-link-icon.svg" border="false"::: [Transact-SQL syntax conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)

## Syntax

```syntaxsql
sp_droparticle
    [ @publication = ] N'publication'
    , [ @article = ] N'article'
    [ , [ @ignore_distributor = ] ignore_distributor ]
    [ , [ @force_invalidate_snapshot = ] force_invalidate_snapshot ]
    [ , [ @publisher = ] N'publisher' ]
    [ , [ @from_drop_publication = ] from_drop_publication ]
[ ; ]
```

## Arguments

#### [ @publication = ] N'*publication*'

The name of the publication that contains the article to be dropped. *@publication* is **sysname**, with no default.

#### [ @article = ] N'*article*'

The name of the article to be dropped. *@article* is **sysname**, with no default.

#### [ @ignore_distributor = ] *ignore_distributor*

[!INCLUDE [ssinternalonly-md](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]

#### [ @force_invalidate_snapshot = ] *force_invalidate_snapshot*

Acknowledges that the action taken by this stored procedure might invalidate an existing snapshot. *@force_invalidate_snapshot* is **bit**, with a default of `0`.

- `0` specifies that changes to the article don't cause the snapshot to be invalid. If the stored procedure detects that the change does require a new snapshot, an error occurs and no changes are made.

- `1` specifies that changes to the article might cause the snapshot to be invalid, and if there are existing subscriptions that would require a new snapshot, gives permission for the existing snapshot to be marked as obsolete and a new snapshot generated.

#### [ @publisher = ] N'*publisher*'

Specifies a non-[!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Publisher. *@publisher* is **sysname**, with a default of `NULL`.

This parameter shouldn't be used when changing article properties on a [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Publisher.

#### [ @from_drop_publication = ] *from_drop_publication*

[!INCLUDE [ssinternalonly-md](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]

## Return code values

`0` (success) or `1` (failure).

## Remarks

`sp_droparticle` is used in snapshot and transactional replication.

For horizontally filtered articles, `sp_droparticle` checks the `type` column of the article in the [sysarticles](../system-tables/sysarticles-transact-sql.md) table to determine whether a view or filter should also be dropped. If a view or filter was autogenerated, it's dropped with the article. If it was manually created, it isn't dropped.

Executing `sp_droparticle` to drop an article from a publication doesn't remove the object from the publication database or the corresponding object from the subscription database. Use `DROP <object>` to manually remove these objects if necessary.

## Examples

:::code language="sql" source="../replication/codesnippet/tsql/sp-droparticle-transact-_1.sql":::

## Permissions

Only members of the **sysadmin** fixed server role or **db_owner** fixed database role can execute `sp_droparticle`.

## Related content

- [Delete an Article](../replication/publish/delete-an-article.md)
- [Add Articles to and Drop Articles from Existing Publications](../replication/publish/add-articles-to-and-drop-articles-from-existing-publications.md)
- [sp_addarticle (Transact-SQL)](sp-addarticle-transact-sql.md)
- [sp_changearticle (Transact-SQL)](sp-changearticle-transact-sql.md)
- [sp_helparticle (Transact-SQL)](sp-helparticle-transact-sql.md)
- [sp_helparticlecolumns (Transact-SQL)](sp-helparticlecolumns-transact-sql.md)
- [Replication stored procedures (Transact-SQL)](replication-stored-procedures-transact-sql.md)
