docs/relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-server-info-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "sp_server_info (Transact-SQL)"
description: Returns a list of attribute names and matching values for SQL Server, the database gateway, or the underlying data source.
author: markingmyname
ms.author: maghan
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 04/08/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: system-objects
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords:
  - "sp_server_info"
  - "sp_server_info_TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "sp_server_info"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
---
# sp_server_info (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [SQL Server Azure SQL Database Azure SQL Managed Instance](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdb-asdbmi.md)]

Returns a list of attribute names and matching values for [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], the database gateway, or the underlying data source.

:::image type="icon" source="../../includes/media/topic-link-icon.svg" border="false"::: [Transact-SQL syntax conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)

## Syntax

```syntaxsql
sp_server_info [ [ @attribute_id = ] attribute_id ]
[ ; ]
```

## Arguments

#### [ @attribute_id = ] *attribute_id*

The integer ID of the attribute. *@attribute_id* is **int**, with a default of `NULL`.

## Return code values

None.

## Result set

| Column name | Data type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `ATTRIBUTE_ID` | **int** | ID number of the attribute. |
| `ATTRIBUTE_NAME` | **varchar(60)** | Attribute name. |
| `ATTRIBUTE_VALUE` | **varchar(255)** | Current setting of the attribute. |

The following table lists the attributes. [!INCLUDE [msCoName](../../includes/msconame-md.md)] ODBC client libraries currently use attributes `1`, `2`, `18`, `22`, and `500` at connection time.

| `ATTRIBUTE_ID` | `ATTRIBUTE_NAME` and description | `ATTRIBUTE_VALUE` |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `1` | `DBMS_NAME` | [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] |
| `2` | `DBMS_VER` | Microsoft [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] *xxxx* - *x.xx.xxxx*<br /><br />For example, `Microsoft SQL Server 2017 - 14.0.3257.3` |
| `10` | `OWNER_TERM` | `owner` |
| `11` | `TABLE_TERM` | `table` |
| `12` | `MAX_OWNER_NAME_LENGTH` | `128` |
| `13` | `TABLE_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum number of characters for a table name. | `128` |
| `14` | `MAX_QUAL_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum length of the name for a table qualifier (the first part of a three-part table name). | `128` |
| `15` | `COLUMN_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum number of characters for a column name. | `128` |
| `16` | `IDENTIFIER_CASE`<br /><br />Specifies the user-defined names (table names, column names, stored procedure names) in the database (the case of the objects in the system catalogs). | `SENSITIVE` |
| `17` | `TX_ISOLATION`<br /><br />Specifies the initial transaction isolation level the server assumes, which corresponds to an isolation level defined in SQL-92. | `2` |
| `18` | `COLLATION_SEQ`<br /><br />Specifies the ordering of the character set for this server. | `charset=iso_1 sort_order=dictionary_iso charset_num=1 sort_order_num=51` |
| `19` | `SAVEPOINT_SUPPORT`<br /><br />Specifies whether the underlying DBMS supports named savepoints. | `Y` |
| `20` | `MULTI_RESULT_SETS`<br /><br />Specifies whether the underlying database or the gateway itself supports multiple result sets (multiple statements can be sent through the gateway with multiple result sets returned to the client). | `Y` |
| `22` | `ACCESSIBLE_TABLES`<br /><br />Specifies whether in `sp_tables`, the gateway returns only tables, views, and so on, accessible by the current user (that is, the user who has at least `SELECT` permissions for the table). | `Y` |
| `100` | `USERID_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum number of characters for a username. | `128` |
| `101` | `QUALIFIER_TERM`<br /><br />Specifies the DBMS vendor term for a table qualifier (the first part of a three-part name). | `database` |
| `102` | `NAMED_TRANSACTIONS`<br /><br />Specifies whether the underlying DBMS supports named transactions. | `Y` |
| `103` | `SPROC_AS_LANGUAGE`<br /><br />Specifies whether stored procedures can be executed as language events. | `Y` |
| `104` | `ACCESSIBLE_SPROC`<br /><br />Specifies whether in `sp_stored_procedures`, the gateway returns only stored procedures that are executable by the current user. | `Y` |
| `105` | `MAX_INDEX_COLS`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum number of columns in an index for the DBMS. | `16` |
| `106` | `RENAME_TABLE`<br /><br />Specifies whether tables can be renamed. | `Y` |
| `107` | `RENAME_COLUMN`<br /><br />Specifies whether columns can be renamed. | `Y` |
| `108` | `DROP_COLUMN`<br /><br />Specifies whether columns can be dropped. | `Y` |
| `109` | `INCREASE_COLUMN_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies whether column size can be increased. | `Y` |
| `110` | `DDL_IN_TRANSACTION`<br /><br />Specifies whether DDL statements can appear in transactions. | `Y` |
| `111` | `DESCENDING_INDEXES`<br /><br />Specifies whether descending indexes are supported. | `Y` |
| `112` | `SP_RENAME`<br /><br />Specifies whether a stored procedure can be renamed. | `Y` |
| `113` | `REMOTE_SPROC`<br /><br />Specifies whether stored procedures can be executed through the remote stored procedure functions in DB-Library. | `Y` |
| `500` | `SYS_SPROC_VERSION`<br /><br />Specifies the version of the catalog stored procedures currently implemented. | Current version number |

## Remarks

`sp_server_info` returns a subset of the information provided by `SQLGetInfo` in ODBC.

## Permissions

Requires membership in the **public** role.

## Related content

- [Catalog stored procedures (Transact-SQL)](catalog-stored-procedures-transact-sql.md)
- [System stored procedures (Transact-SQL)](system-stored-procedures-transact-sql.md)

Commit message:

Add descriptions to sp_server_info article (UUF 291364)

docs/relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-server-info-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "sp_server_info (Transact-SQL)"
description: Returns a list of attribute names and matching values for SQL Server, the database gateway, or the underlying data source.
author: markingmyname
ms.author: maghan
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 08/02/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: system-objects
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords:
  - "sp_server_info"
  - "sp_server_info_TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "sp_server_info"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
---
# sp_server_info (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [SQL Server Azure SQL Database Azure SQL Managed Instance](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdb-asdbmi.md)]

Returns a list of attribute names and matching values for [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], the database gateway, or the underlying data source. Used in ODBC only.

:::image type="icon" source="../../includes/media/topic-link-icon.svg" border="false"::: [Transact-SQL syntax conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)

## Syntax

```syntaxsql
sp_server_info [ [ @attribute_id = ] attribute_id ]
[ ; ]
```

## Arguments

#### [ @attribute_id = ] *attribute_id*

The integer ID of the attribute. *@attribute_id* is **int**, with a default of `NULL`.

## Return code values

None.

## Result set

| Column name | Data type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `ATTRIBUTE_ID` | **int** | ID number of the attribute. |
| `ATTRIBUTE_NAME` | **varchar(60)** | Attribute name. |
| `ATTRIBUTE_VALUE` | **varchar(255)** | Current setting of the attribute. |

The following table lists the attributes. [!INCLUDE [msCoName](../../includes/msconame-md.md)] ODBC client libraries currently use attributes `1`, `2`, `18`, `22`, and `500` at connection time.

| `ATTRIBUTE_ID` | `ATTRIBUTE_NAME` and description | `ATTRIBUTE_VALUE` |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `1` | `DBMS_NAME` | [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] |
| `2` | `DBMS_VER` | Microsoft [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] *xxxx* - *x.xx.xxxx*<br /><br />For example, `Microsoft SQL Server 2017 - 14.0.3257.3` |
| `10` | `OWNER_TERM`<br /><br />Specifies the owner name (database principal in [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]) or schema name. `OWNER_TERM` is used in the ODBC 2.0 API, while `SQL_SCHEMA_TERM` is used in the ODBC 3.0 API. | `owner` |
| `11` | `TABLE_TERM`<br /><br />Specifies the table object, which can be a table or view in [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. | `table` |
| `12` | `MAX_OWNER_NAME_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum number of characters for the owner or schema name. | `128` |
| `13` | `TABLE_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum number of characters for a table name. | `128` |
| `14` | `MAX_QUAL_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum length of the name for a table qualifier (the first part of a three-part table name). | `128` |
| `15` | `COLUMN_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum number of characters for a column name. | `128` |
| `16` | `IDENTIFIER_CASE`<br /><br />Specifies the user-defined names (table names, column names, stored procedure names) in the database (the case of the objects in the system catalogs). | `SENSITIVE` |
| `17` | `TX_ISOLATION`<br /><br />Specifies the initial transaction isolation level the server assumes, which corresponds to an isolation level defined in SQL-92. | `2` |
| `18` | `COLLATION_SEQ`<br /><br />Specifies the ordering of the character set for this server. | `charset=iso_1 sort_order=dictionary_iso charset_num=1 sort_order_num=51` |
| `19` | `SAVEPOINT_SUPPORT`<br /><br />Specifies whether the underlying DBMS supports named savepoints. | `Y` |
| `20` | `MULTI_RESULT_SETS`<br /><br />Specifies whether the underlying database or the gateway itself supports multiple result sets (multiple statements can be sent through the gateway with multiple result sets returned to the client). | `Y` |
| `22` | `ACCESSIBLE_TABLES`<br /><br />Specifies whether in `sp_tables`, the gateway returns only tables, views, and so on, accessible by the current user (that is, the user who has at least `SELECT` permissions for the table). | `Y` |
| `100` | `USERID_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum number of characters for a username. | `128` |
| `101` | `QUALIFIER_TERM`<br /><br />Specifies the DBMS vendor term for a table qualifier (the first part of a three-part name). | `database` |
| `102` | `NAMED_TRANSACTIONS`<br /><br />Specifies whether the underlying DBMS supports named transactions. | `Y` |
| `103` | `SPROC_AS_LANGUAGE`<br /><br />Specifies whether stored procedures can be executed as language events. | `Y` |
| `104` | `ACCESSIBLE_SPROC`<br /><br />Specifies whether in `sp_stored_procedures`, the gateway returns only stored procedures that are executable by the current user. | `Y` |
| `105` | `MAX_INDEX_COLS`<br /><br />Specifies the maximum number of columns in an index for the DBMS. | `16` |
| `106` | `RENAME_TABLE`<br /><br />Specifies whether tables can be renamed. | `Y` |
| `107` | `RENAME_COLUMN`<br /><br />Specifies whether columns can be renamed. | `Y` |
| `108` | `DROP_COLUMN`<br /><br />Specifies whether columns can be dropped. | `Y` |
| `109` | `INCREASE_COLUMN_LENGTH`<br /><br />Specifies whether column size can be increased. | `Y` |
| `110` | `DDL_IN_TRANSACTION`<br /><br />Specifies whether DDL statements can appear in transactions. | `Y` |
| `111` | `DESCENDING_INDEXES`<br /><br />Specifies whether descending indexes are supported. | `Y` |
| `112` | `SP_RENAME`<br /><br />Specifies whether a stored procedure can be renamed. | `Y` |
| `113` | `REMOTE_SPROC`<br /><br />Specifies whether stored procedures can be executed through the remote stored procedure functions in DB-Library. | `Y` |
| `500` | `SYS_SPROC_VERSION`<br /><br />Specifies the version of the catalog stored procedures currently implemented. | Current version number |

## Remarks

`sp_server_info` returns a subset of the information provided by `SQLGetInfo` in ODBC.

## Permissions

Requires membership in the **public** role.

## Related content

- [Catalog stored procedures (Transact-SQL)](catalog-stored-procedures-transact-sql.md)
- [System stored procedures (Transact-SQL)](system-stored-procedures-transact-sql.md)
- [SQLGetInfo Function](../../odbc/reference/syntax/sqlgetinfo-function.md)
