---
title: "sp_scriptpublicationcustomprocs (Transact-SQL)"
description: Scripts the custom INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE procedures for all table articles in a publication in which the autogenerate custom procedure schema option is enabled.
author: markingmyname
ms.author: maghan
ms.reviewer: randolphwest
ms.date: 04/08/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: replication
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords:
  - "sp_scriptpublicationcustomprocs"
  - "sp_scriptpublicationcustomprocs_TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "sp_scriptpublicationcustomprocs"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
---
# sp_scriptpublicationcustomprocs (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [SQL Server SQL MI](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdbmi.md)]

Scripts the custom `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` procedures for all table articles in a publication in which the autogenerate custom procedure schema option is enabled. `sp_scriptpublicationcustomprocs` can be useful for setting up subscriptions for which the snapshot is applied manually.

:::image type="icon" source="../../includes/media/topic-link-icon.svg" border="false"::: [Transact-SQL syntax conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)

## Syntax

```syntaxsql
sp_scriptpublicationcustomprocs
    [ @publication = ] N'publication'
    [ , [ @publisher = ] N'publisher' ]
    [ , [ @usesqlclr = ] usesqlclr ]
[ ; ]
```

## Arguments

#### [ @publication = ] N'*publication*'

The name of the publication. *@publication* is **sysname**, with no default.

#### [ @publisher = ] N'*publisher*'

The name of the publisher. *@publisher* is **sysname**, with a default of `NULL`.

#### [ @usesqlclr = ] *usesqlclr*

[!INCLUDE [ssinternalonly-md](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]

## Return code values

`0` (success) or `1` (failure).

## Result set

Returns a result set that consists of a single **nvarchar(4000)** column. The result set forms the complete `CREATE PROCEDURE` statement necessary to create the custom stored procedure.

## Remarks

Custom procedures aren't scripted for articles without the autogenerated custom procedure (`0x2`) schema option.

The following procedures are used by `sp_scriptpublicationcustomprocs` to create procedures the Subscriber, and shouldn't be executed directly:

- `sp_script_reconciliation_delproc`
- `sp_script_reconciliation_insproc`
- `sp_script_reconciliation_vdelproc`
- `sp_script_reconciliation_xdelproc`
- `sp_scriptdelproc`
- `sp_scriptinsproc`
- `sp_scriptmappedupdproc`
- `sp_scriptupdproc`
- `sp_scriptvdelproc`
- `sp_scriptvupdproc`
- `sp_scriptxdelproc`
- `sp_scriptxupdproc`

## Permissions

Execute permission is granted to **public**. A procedural security check is performed inside this stored procedure to restrict access to members of the **sysadmin** fixed server role and **db_owner** fixed database role in current database.

## Related content

- [System stored procedures (Transact-SQL)](system-stored-procedures-transact-sql.md)
