docs/linux/sql-server-linux-active-directory-authentication.md, before:

---
title: "Tutorial: Active Directory authentication for SQL Server on Linux"
titleSuffix: SQL Server
description: This tutorial provides the configuration steps for AAD authentication for SQL Server on Linux.
author: meet-bhagdev
ms.date: 02/23/2018
ms.author: meetb 
manager: craigg
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: sql
ms.custom: "sql-linux, seodec18"
ms.technology: linux
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Linux, AAD authentication"
---
# Tutorial: Use Active Directory authentication with SQL Server on Linux

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md-linuxonly](../includes/appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md-linuxonly.md)]

This tutorial explains how to configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] on Linux to support Active Directory (AD) authentication, also known as integrated authentication. For an overview, see [Active Directory authentication for SQL Server on Linux](sql-server-linux-active-directory-auth-overview.md).

This tutorial consists of the following tasks:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Join [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host to AD domain
> * Create AD user for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] and set SPN
> * Configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] service keytab
> * Create AD-based logins in Transact-SQL
> * Connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using AD Authentication

> [!NOTE]
>
> If you wish to configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] on Linux to use a third-party AD provider, please see [Use third-party Active Directory providers with SQL Server on Linux](./sql-server-linux-active-directory-third-party-providers.md).

## Prerequisites

Before you configure AD Authentication, you need to:

* Set up an AD Domain Controller (Windows) on your network  
* Install [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]
  * [Red Hat Enterprise Linux](quickstart-install-connect-red-hat.md)
  * [SUSE Linux Enterprise Server](quickstart-install-connect-suse.md)
  * [Ubuntu](quickstart-install-connect-ubuntu.md)

## <a id="join"></a> Join [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host to AD domain

Use the following steps to join a [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host to an Active Directory domain:

1. Use **[realmd](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/realmd/docs/guide-active-directory-join.html)** to join your host machine to your AD Domain. If you haven't already, install both the realmd and Kerberos client packages on the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host machine using your Linux distribution's package manager:

   ```bash
   # RHEL
   sudo yum install realmd krb5-workstation

   # SUSE
   sudo zypper install realmd krb5-client

   # Ubuntu
   sudo apt-get install realmd krb5-user software-properties-common python-software-properties packagekit
   ```

1. If the Kerberos client package installation prompts you for a realm name, enter your domain name in uppercase.

   > [!NOTE]
   > This walkthrough uses "contoso.com" and "CONTOSO.COM" as example domain and realm names, respectively. You should replace these with your own values. These commands are case-sensitive, so make sure you use uppercase wherever it is used in this walkthrough.

1. Configure your [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host machine to use your AD domain controller's IP address as a DNS nameserver. 

   - **Ubuntu**:

      Edit the `/etc/network/interfaces` file so that your AD domain controller's IP address is listed as a dns-nameserver. For example: 

      ```/etc/network/interfaces
      <...>
      # The primary network interface
      auto eth0
      iface eth0 inet dhcp
      dns-nameservers **<AD domain controller IP address>**
      dns-search **<AD domain name>**
      ```

      > [!NOTE]
      > The network interface (eth0) might differ for different machines. To find out which one you are using, run ifconfig and copy the interface that has an IP address and transmitted and received bytes.

      After editing this file, restart the network service:

      ```bash
      sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0
      ```

      Now check that your `/etc/resolv.conf` file contains a line like the following example:  

      ```/etc/resolv.conf
      nameserver **<AD domain controller IP address>**
      ```

   - **RHEL**:

     Edit the `/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0` file (or other interface config file as appropriate) so that your AD domain controller's IP address is listed as a DNS server:

     ```/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0
     <...>
     PEERDNS=no
     DNS1=**<AD domain controller IP address>**
     ```

     After editing this file, restart the network service:

     ```bash
     sudo systemctl restart network
     ```

     Now check that your `/etc/resolv.conf` file contains a line like the following example:  

     ```/etc/resolv.conf
     nameserver **<AD domain controller IP address>**
     ```

   - **SLES**:

     Edit the `/etc/sysconfig/network/config` file so that your AD domain controller IP will be used for DNS queries and the your AD domain is in the domain search list:

     ```/etc/sysconfig/network/config
     <...>
     NETCONFIG_DNS_STATIC_SERVERS="**<AD domain controller IP address>**"
     ```

     After editing this file, restart the network service:

     ```bash
     sudo systemctl restart network
     ```

     Now check that your `/etc/resolv.conf` file contains a line like the following example:

     ```/etc/resolv.conf
     nameserver **<AD domain controller IP address>**
     ```

1. Join the domain

   Once you've confirmed that your DNS is configured properly, join the domain by running the following command. You must authenticate using an AD account that has sufficient privileges in AD to join a new machine to the domain.

   Specifically, this command creates a new computer account in AD, create the `/etc/krb5.keytab` host keytab file, and configure the domain in `/etc/sssd/sssd.conf`:

   ```bash
   sudo realm join contoso.com -U 'user@CONTOSO.COM' -v
   <...>
   * Successfully enrolled machine in realm
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you see an error, "Necessary packages are not installed," then you should install those packages using your Linux distribution's package manager before running the `realm join` command again.
   >
   > If you receive an error, "Insufficient permissions to join the domain," then you need to check with a domain administrator that you have sufficient permissions to join Linux machines to your domain.
   >
   > If you receive an error, "KDC reply did not match expectations," then you may not have specified the correct realm name for the user. Realm names are case-sensitive, usually uppercase, and can be identified with the command `realm discover contoso.com`.
   
   > SQL Server uses SSSD and NSS for mapping user accounts and groups to security identifiers (SID's). SSSD must be configured and running in order for SQL Server to create AD logins successfully. Realmd usually does this automatically as part of joining the domain, but in some cases you must do this separately.
   >
   > Check out the following to configure [SSSD manually](https://access.redhat.com/articles/3023951), and [configure NSS to work with SSSD](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/system-level_authentication_guide/configuring_services#Configuration_Options-NSS_Configuration_Options)

  
5. Verify that you can now gather information about a user from the domain, and that you can acquire a Kerberos ticket as that user.

   The following example uses **id**, **[kinit](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/user/user_commands/kinit.html)**, and **[klist](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/user/user_commands/klist.html)** commands for this.

   ```bash
   id user@contoso.com
   uid=1348601103(user@contoso.com) gid=1348600513(domain group@contoso.com) groups=1348600513(domain group@contoso.com)

   kinit user@CONTOSO.COM
   Password for user@CONTOSO.COM:

   klist
   Ticket cache: FILE:/tmp/krb5cc_1000
   Default principal: user@CONTOSO.COM
   <...>
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If `id user@contoso.com` returns, "No such user," make sure that the SSSD service started successfully by running the command `sudo systemctl status sssd`. If the service is running and you still see the "No such user" error, try enabling verbose logging for SSSD. For more information, see the Red Hat documentation for [Troubleshooting SSSD](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/7/html/System-Level_Authentication_Guide/trouble.html#SSSD-Troubleshooting).
   >
   > If `kinit user@CONTOSO.COM` returns, "KDC reply did not match expectations while getting initial credentials," make sure you specified the realm in uppercase.

For more information, see the Red Hat documentation for [Discovering and Joining Identity Domains](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/7/html/Windows_Integration_Guide/realmd-domain.html). 

## <a id="createuser"></a> Create AD user for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] and set SPN

  > [!NOTE]
  > The next steps use your [fully qualified domain name](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name). If you are on **Azure**, you must **[create one](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/linux/portal-create-fqdn)** before you proceed.

1. On your domain controller, run the [New-ADUser](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/ee617253.aspx) PowerShell command to create a new AD user with a password that never expires. This example names the account "mssql," but the account name can be anything you like. You will be prompted to enter a new password for the account:

   ```PowerShell
   Import-Module ActiveDirectory

   New-ADUser mssql -AccountPassword (Read-Host -AsSecureString "Enter Password") -PasswordNeverExpires $true -Enabled $true
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > It is a security best practice to have a dedicated AD account for SQL Server, so that SQL Server's credentials aren't shared with other services using the same account. However, you can reuse an existing AD account if you prefer, if you know the account's password (required to generate a keytab file in the next step).

2. Set the ServicePrincipalName (SPN) for this account using the `setspn.exe` tool. The SPN must be formatted exactly as specified in the following example. You can find the fully qualified domain name of the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host machine by running `hostname --all-fqdns` on the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host, and the TCP port should be 1433 unless you have configured [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] to use a different port number.

   ```PowerShell
   setspn -A MSSQLSvc/**<fully qualified domain name of host machine>**:**<tcp port>** mssql
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you receive an error, "Insufficient access rights," then you need to check with a domain administrator that you have sufficient permissions to set an SPN on this account.
   >
   > If you change the TCP port in the future, then you need to run the setspn command again with the new port number. You also need to add the new SPN to the SQL Server service keytab by following the steps in the next section.

3. For more information, see [Register a Service Principal Name for Kerberos Connections](../database-engine/configure-windows/register-a-service-principal-name-for-kerberos-connections.md).

## <a id="configurekeytab"></a> Configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] service keytab

1. Check the Key Version Number (kvno) for the AD account created in the previous step. Usually it is 2, but it could be another integer if you changed the account's password multiple times. On the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host machine, run the following:

   ```bash
   kinit user@CONTOSO.COM

   kvno MSSQLSvc/**<fully qualified domain name of host machine>**:**<tcp port>**
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > SPNs can take several minutes to propagate through your domain, especially if the domain is large. If you receive the error, "kvno: Server not found in Kerberos database while getting credentials for MSSQLSvc/\*\*\<fully qualified domain name of host machine\>\*\*:\*\*\<tcp port\>\*\*\@CONTOSO.COM", please wait a few minutes and try again.

2. Create a keytab file with **[ktutil](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/admin/admin_commands/ktutil.html)** for the AD user you created in the previous step. When prompted, enter the password for that AD account.

   ```bash
   sudo ktutil

   ktutil: addent -password -p MSSQLSvc/**<fully qualified domain name of host machine>**:**<tcp port>**@CONTOSO.COM -k **<kvno from above>** -e aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96

   ktutil: addent -password -p MSSQLSvc/**<fully qualified domain name of host machine>**:**<tcp port>**@CONTOSO.COM -k **<kvno from above>** -e rc4-hmac

   ktutil: wkt /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab

   quit
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > The ktutil tool does not validate the password, so make sure you enter it correctly.

3. Add the machine account to your keytab with **[ktutil](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/admin/admin_commands/ktutil.html)**. The machine account (also called a UPN) is present in `/etc/krb5.keytab` in the form "\<hostname\>$\@\<realm.com\>" (e.g. sqlhost$\@CONTOSO.COM). We will copy these entries from `/etc/krb5.keytab` to `mssql.keytab`.

   ```bash
   sudo ktutil

   # Read all entries from /etc/krb5.keytab
   ktutil: rkt /etc/krb5.keytab

   # List all entries
   ktutil: list

   # Delete all entries by their slot number which are not the UPN one at a
   # time.
   # Warning: when an entry is deleted (e.g. slot 1), all values slide up by
   # one to take its place (e.g. the entry in slot 2 moves to slot 1 when slot
   # 1's entry is deleted)
   ktutil: delent <slot num>
   ktutil: delent <slot num>
   ...

   # List all entries to ensure only UPN entries are left
   ktutil: list

   # When only UPN entries are left, append these values to mssql.keytab
   ktutil: wkt /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab

   quit
   ```

4. Anyone with access to this `keytab` file can impersonate [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] on the domain, so make sure you restrict access to the file such that only the `mssql` account has read access:

   ```bash
   sudo chown mssql:mssql /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab
   sudo chmod 400 /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab
   ```

5. Configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] to use this `keytab` file for Kerberos authentication:

   ```bash
   sudo /opt/mssql/bin/mssql-conf set network.kerberoskeytabfile /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab
   sudo systemctl restart mssql-server
   ```

6. Optional: Disable UDP connections to the domain controller to improve performance. In many cases, UDP connections will always fail when connecting to a domain controller, so you can set config options in `/etc/krb5.conf`  to skip UDP calls. Edit `/etc/krb5.conf` and set the following options:

   ```/etc/krb5.conf
   [libdefaults]
   udp_preference_limit=0
   ```

## <a id="createsqllogins"></a> Create AD-based logins in Transact-SQL

1. Connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] and create a new, AD-based login:

   ```sql
   CREATE LOGIN [CONTOSO\user] FROM WINDOWS;
   ```

2. Verify that the login is now listed in the [sys.server_principals](../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-server-principals-transact-sql.md) system catalog view:

   ```sql
   SELECT name FROM sys.server_principals;
   ```

## <a id="connect"></a> Connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using AD Authentication

Log in to a client machine using your domain credentials. Now you can connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] without reentering your password, by using AD Authentication. If you create a login for an AD group, any AD user who is a member of that group can connect in the same way.

The specific connection string parameter for clients to use AD Authentication depends on which driver you are using. Consider the following examples:

* `sqlcmd` on a domain-joined Linux client

   Log in to a domain-joined Linux client using `ssh` and your domain credentials:

   ```bash
   ssh -l user@contoso.com client.contoso.com
   ```

   Make sure you've installed the [mssql-tools](sql-server-linux-setup-tools.md) package, then connect using `sqlcmd` without specifying any credentials:

   ```bash
   sqlcmd -S mssql-host.contoso.com
   ```

* SSMS on a domain-joined Windows client

   Log in to a domain-joined Windows client using your domain credentials. Make sure [!INCLUDE[ssmanstudiofull-md](../includes/ssmanstudiofull-md.md)] is installed, then connect to your [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] instance (e.g. "mssql-host.contoso.com") by specifying **Windows Authentication** in the **Connect to Server** dialog.

* AD Authentication using other client drivers

  * JDBC: [Using Kerberos Integrated Authentication to Connect SQL Server](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/connect/jdbc/using-kerberos-integrated-authentication-to-connect-to-sql-server)
  * ODBC: [Using Integrated Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/connect/odbc/linux/using-integrated-authentication)
  * ADO.NET: [Connection String Syntax](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/system.data.sqlclient.sqlauthenticationmethod(v=vs.110).aspx)

## Performance Improvements
If you notice that AD account lookups are taking a while, and you have checked you AD configuration is valid with the steps at [Use Active Directory Authentication with SQL Server on Linux through Third-Party AD Providers](sql-server-linux-active-directory-third-party-providers.md), you can add the lines below to `/var/opt/mssql/mssql.conf` to skip SSSD calls and directly use LDAP calls.

```/var/opt/mssql/mssql.conf
[network]
disablesssd = true
```

## Next steps

In this tutorial, we walked through how to set up Active Directory authentication with SQL Server on Linux. You learned how to:
> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Join [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host to AD domain
> * Create AD user for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] and set SPN
> * Configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] service keytab
> * Create AD-based logins in Transact-SQL
> * Connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using AD Authentication

Next, explore other security scenarios for SQL Server on Linux.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
>[Encrypting Connections to SQL Server on Linux](sql-server-linux-encrypted-connections.md)

Commit message:

Add krb5.conf config to AD docs so commands work without realm

docs/linux/sql-server-linux-active-directory-authentication.md, after:

---
title: "Tutorial: Active Directory authentication for SQL Server on Linux"
titleSuffix: SQL Server
description: This tutorial provides the configuration steps for AAD authentication for SQL Server on Linux.
author: meet-bhagdev
ms.date: 02/23/2018
ms.author: meetb 
manager: craigg
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: sql
ms.custom: "sql-linux, seodec18"
ms.technology: linux
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Linux, AAD authentication"
---
# Tutorial: Use Active Directory authentication with SQL Server on Linux

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md-linuxonly](../includes/appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md-linuxonly.md)]

This tutorial explains how to configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] on Linux to support Active Directory (AD) authentication, also known as integrated authentication. For an overview, see [Active Directory authentication for SQL Server on Linux](sql-server-linux-active-directory-auth-overview.md).

This tutorial consists of the following tasks:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Join [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host to AD domain
> * Create AD user for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] and set SPN
> * Configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] service keytab
> * Create AD-based logins in Transact-SQL
> * Connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using AD Authentication

> [!NOTE]
>
> If you wish to configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] on Linux to use a third-party AD provider, please see [Use third-party Active Directory providers with SQL Server on Linux](./sql-server-linux-active-directory-third-party-providers.md).

## Prerequisites

Before you configure AD Authentication, you need to:

* Set up an AD Domain Controller (Windows) on your network  
* Install [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]
  * [Red Hat Enterprise Linux](quickstart-install-connect-red-hat.md)
  * [SUSE Linux Enterprise Server](quickstart-install-connect-suse.md)
  * [Ubuntu](quickstart-install-connect-ubuntu.md)

## <a id="join"></a> Join [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host to AD domain

Use the following steps to join a [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host to an Active Directory domain:

1. Use **[realmd](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/realmd/docs/guide-active-directory-join.html)** to join your host machine to your AD Domain. If you haven't already, install both the realmd and Kerberos client packages on the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host machine using your Linux distribution's package manager:

   ```bash
   # RHEL
   sudo yum install realmd krb5-workstation

   # SUSE
   sudo zypper install realmd krb5-client

   # Ubuntu
   sudo apt-get install realmd krb5-user software-properties-common python-software-properties packagekit
   ```

1. If the Kerberos client package installation prompts you for a realm name, enter your domain name in uppercase.

   > [!NOTE]
   > This walkthrough uses "contoso.com" and "CONTOSO.COM" as example domain and realm names, respectively. You should replace these with your own values. These commands are case-sensitive, so make sure you use uppercase wherever it is used in this walkthrough.

1. Configure your [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host machine to use your AD domain controller's IP address as a DNS nameserver. 

   - **Ubuntu**:

      Edit the `/etc/network/interfaces` file so that your AD domain controller's IP address is listed as a dns-nameserver. For example: 

      ```/etc/network/interfaces
      <...>
      # The primary network interface
      auto eth0
      iface eth0 inet dhcp
      dns-nameservers **<AD domain controller IP address>**
      dns-search **<AD domain name>**
      ```

      > [!NOTE]
      > The network interface (eth0) might differ for different machines. To find out which one you are using, run ifconfig and copy the interface that has an IP address and transmitted and received bytes.

      After editing this file, restart the network service:

      ```bash
      sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0
      ```

      Now check that your `/etc/resolv.conf` file contains a line like the following example:  

      ```/etc/resolv.conf
      nameserver **<AD domain controller IP address>**
      ```

   - **RHEL**:

     Edit the `/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0` file (or other interface config file as appropriate) so that your AD domain controller's IP address is listed as a DNS server:

     ```/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0
     <...>
     PEERDNS=no
     DNS1=**<AD domain controller IP address>**
     ```

     After editing this file, restart the network service:

     ```bash
     sudo systemctl restart network
     ```

     Now check that your `/etc/resolv.conf` file contains a line like the following example:  

     ```/etc/resolv.conf
     nameserver **<AD domain controller IP address>**
     ```

   - **SLES**:

     Edit the `/etc/sysconfig/network/config` file so that your AD domain controller IP will be used for DNS queries and the your AD domain is in the domain search list:

     ```/etc/sysconfig/network/config
     <...>
     NETCONFIG_DNS_STATIC_SERVERS="**<AD domain controller IP address>**"
     ```

     After editing this file, restart the network service:

     ```bash
     sudo systemctl restart network
     ```

     Now check that your `/etc/resolv.conf` file contains a line like the following example:

     ```/etc/resolv.conf
     nameserver **<AD domain controller IP address>**
     ```

1. Join the domain

   Once you've confirmed that your DNS is configured properly, join the domain by running the following command. You must authenticate using an AD account that has sufficient privileges in AD to join a new machine to the domain.

   Specifically, this command creates a new computer account in AD, create the `/etc/krb5.keytab` host keytab file, and configure the domain in `/etc/sssd/sssd.conf`:

   ```bash
   sudo realm join contoso.com -U 'user@CONTOSO.COM' -v
   <...>
   * Successfully enrolled machine in realm
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you see an error, "Necessary packages are not installed," then you should install those packages using your Linux distribution's package manager before running the `realm join` command again.
   >
   > If you receive an error, "Insufficient permissions to join the domain," then you need to check with a domain administrator that you have sufficient permissions to join Linux machines to your domain.
   >
   > If you receive an error, "KDC reply did not match expectations," then you may not have specified the correct realm name for the user. Realm names are case-sensitive, usually uppercase, and can be identified with the command `realm discover contoso.com`.
   
   > SQL Server uses SSSD and NSS for mapping user accounts and groups to security identifiers (SID's). SSSD must be configured and running in order for SQL Server to create AD logins successfully. Realmd usually does this automatically as part of joining the domain, but in some cases you must do this separately.
   >
   > Check out the following to configure [SSSD manually](https://access.redhat.com/articles/3023951), and [configure NSS to work with SSSD](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/system-level_authentication_guide/configuring_services#Configuration_Options-NSS_Configuration_Options)

5. Verify your domain is configured in `/etc/krb5.conf`
    ```/etc/krb5.conf
    [libdefaults]
    default_realm = CONTOSO.COM

    [realms]
    CONTOSO.COM = {
    }

    [domain_realm]
    contoso.com = CONTOSO.COM
    .contoso.com = CONTOSO.COM
    ```

  
6. Verify that you can now gather information about a user from the domain, and that you can acquire a Kerberos ticket as that user.

   The following example uses **id**, **[kinit](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/user/user_commands/kinit.html)**, and **[klist](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/user/user_commands/klist.html)** commands for this.

   ```bash
   id user@contoso.com
   uid=1348601103(user@contoso.com) gid=1348600513(domain group@contoso.com) groups=1348600513(domain group@contoso.com)

   kinit user@CONTOSO.COM
   Password for user@CONTOSO.COM:

   klist
   Ticket cache: FILE:/tmp/krb5cc_1000
   Default principal: user@CONTOSO.COM
   <...>
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If `id user@contoso.com` returns, "No such user," make sure that the SSSD service started successfully by running the command `sudo systemctl status sssd`. If the service is running and you still see the "No such user" error, try enabling verbose logging for SSSD. For more information, see the Red Hat documentation for [Troubleshooting SSSD](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/7/html/System-Level_Authentication_Guide/trouble.html#SSSD-Troubleshooting).
   >
   > If `kinit user@CONTOSO.COM` returns, "KDC reply did not match expectations while getting initial credentials," make sure you specified the realm in uppercase.

For more information, see the Red Hat documentation for [Discovering and Joining Identity Domains](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/7/html/Windows_Integration_Guide/realmd-domain.html). 

## <a id="createuser"></a> Create AD user for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] and set SPN

  > [!NOTE]
  > The next steps use your [fully qualified domain name](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name). If you are on **Azure**, you must **[create one](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/linux/portal-create-fqdn)** before you proceed.

1. On your domain controller, run the [New-ADUser](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/ee617253.aspx) PowerShell command to create a new AD user with a password that never expires. This example names the account "mssql," but the account name can be anything you like. You will be prompted to enter a new password for the account:

   ```PowerShell
   Import-Module ActiveDirectory

   New-ADUser mssql -AccountPassword (Read-Host -AsSecureString "Enter Password") -PasswordNeverExpires $true -Enabled $true
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > It is a security best practice to have a dedicated AD account for SQL Server, so that SQL Server's credentials aren't shared with other services using the same account. However, you can reuse an existing AD account if you prefer, if you know the account's password (required to generate a keytab file in the next step).

2. Set the ServicePrincipalName (SPN) for this account using the `setspn.exe` tool. The SPN must be formatted exactly as specified in the following example. You can find the fully qualified domain name of the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host machine by running `hostname --all-fqdns` on the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host, and the TCP port should be 1433 unless you have configured [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] to use a different port number.

   ```PowerShell
   setspn -A MSSQLSvc/**<fully qualified domain name of host machine>**:**<tcp port>** mssql
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you receive an error, "Insufficient access rights," then you need to check with a domain administrator that you have sufficient permissions to set an SPN on this account.
   >
   > If you change the TCP port in the future, then you need to run the setspn command again with the new port number. You also need to add the new SPN to the SQL Server service keytab by following the steps in the next section.

3. For more information, see [Register a Service Principal Name for Kerberos Connections](../database-engine/configure-windows/register-a-service-principal-name-for-kerberos-connections.md).

## <a id="configurekeytab"></a> Configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] service keytab

1. Check the Key Version Number (kvno) for the AD account created in the previous step. Usually it is 2, but it could be another integer if you changed the account's password multiple times. On the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host machine, run the following:

   ```bash
   kinit user@CONTOSO.COM

   kvno MSSQLSvc/**<fully qualified domain name of host machine>**:**<tcp port>**
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > SPNs can take several minutes to propagate through your domain, especially if the domain is large. If you receive the error, "kvno: Server not found in Kerberos database while getting credentials for MSSQLSvc/\*\*\<fully qualified domain name of host machine\>\*\*:\*\*\<tcp port\>\*\*\@CONTOSO.COM", please wait a few minutes and try again.

2. Create a keytab file with **[ktutil](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/admin/admin_commands/ktutil.html)** for the AD user you created in the previous step. When prompted, enter the password for that AD account.

   ```bash
   sudo ktutil

   ktutil: addent -password -p MSSQLSvc/**<fully qualified domain name of host machine>**:**<tcp port>**@CONTOSO.COM -k **<kvno from above>** -e aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96

   ktutil: addent -password -p MSSQLSvc/**<fully qualified domain name of host machine>**:**<tcp port>**@CONTOSO.COM -k **<kvno from above>** -e rc4-hmac

   ktutil: wkt /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab

   quit
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > The ktutil tool does not validate the password, so make sure you enter it correctly.

3. Add the machine account to your keytab with **[ktutil](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/admin/admin_commands/ktutil.html)**. The machine account (also called a UPN) is present in `/etc/krb5.keytab` in the form "\<hostname\>$\@\<realm.com\>" (e.g. sqlhost$\@CONTOSO.COM). We will copy these entries from `/etc/krb5.keytab` to `mssql.keytab`.

   ```bash
   sudo ktutil

   # Read all entries from /etc/krb5.keytab
   ktutil: rkt /etc/krb5.keytab

   # List all entries
   ktutil: list

   # Delete all entries by their slot number which are not the UPN one at a
   # time.
   # Warning: when an entry is deleted (e.g. slot 1), all values slide up by
   # one to take its place (e.g. the entry in slot 2 moves to slot 1 when slot
   # 1's entry is deleted)
   ktutil: delent <slot num>
   ktutil: delent <slot num>
   ...

   # List all entries to ensure only UPN entries are left
   ktutil: list

   # When only UPN entries are left, append these values to mssql.keytab
   ktutil: wkt /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab

   quit
   ```

4. Anyone with access to this `keytab` file can impersonate [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] on the domain, so make sure you restrict access to the file such that only the `mssql` account has read access:

   ```bash
   sudo chown mssql:mssql /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab
   sudo chmod 400 /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab
   ```

5. Configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] to use this `keytab` file for Kerberos authentication:

   ```bash
   sudo /opt/mssql/bin/mssql-conf set network.kerberoskeytabfile /var/opt/mssql/secrets/mssql.keytab
   sudo systemctl restart mssql-server
   ```

6. Optional: Disable UDP connections to the domain controller to improve performance. In many cases, UDP connections will always fail when connecting to a domain controller, so you can set config options in `/etc/krb5.conf`  to skip UDP calls. Edit `/etc/krb5.conf` and set the following options:

   ```/etc/krb5.conf
   [libdefaults]
   udp_preference_limit=0
   ```

## <a id="createsqllogins"></a> Create AD-based logins in Transact-SQL

1. Connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] and create a new, AD-based login:

   ```sql
   CREATE LOGIN [CONTOSO\user] FROM WINDOWS;
   ```

2. Verify that the login is now listed in the [sys.server_principals](../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-server-principals-transact-sql.md) system catalog view:

   ```sql
   SELECT name FROM sys.server_principals;
   ```

## <a id="connect"></a> Connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using AD Authentication

Log in to a client machine using your domain credentials. Now you can connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] without reentering your password, by using AD Authentication. If you create a login for an AD group, any AD user who is a member of that group can connect in the same way.

The specific connection string parameter for clients to use AD Authentication depends on which driver you are using. Consider the following examples:

* `sqlcmd` on a domain-joined Linux client

   Log in to a domain-joined Linux client using `ssh` and your domain credentials:

   ```bash
   ssh -l user@contoso.com client.contoso.com
   ```

   Make sure you've installed the [mssql-tools](sql-server-linux-setup-tools.md) package, then connect using `sqlcmd` without specifying any credentials:

   ```bash
   sqlcmd -S mssql-host.contoso.com
   ```

* SSMS on a domain-joined Windows client

   Log in to a domain-joined Windows client using your domain credentials. Make sure [!INCLUDE[ssmanstudiofull-md](../includes/ssmanstudiofull-md.md)] is installed, then connect to your [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] instance (e.g. "mssql-host.contoso.com") by specifying **Windows Authentication** in the **Connect to Server** dialog.

* AD Authentication using other client drivers

  * JDBC: [Using Kerberos Integrated Authentication to Connect SQL Server](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/connect/jdbc/using-kerberos-integrated-authentication-to-connect-to-sql-server)
  * ODBC: [Using Integrated Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/connect/odbc/linux/using-integrated-authentication)
  * ADO.NET: [Connection String Syntax](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/system.data.sqlclient.sqlauthenticationmethod(v=vs.110).aspx)

## Performance Improvements
If you notice that AD account lookups are taking a while, and you have checked you AD configuration is valid with the steps at [Use Active Directory Authentication with SQL Server on Linux through Third-Party AD Providers](sql-server-linux-active-directory-third-party-providers.md), you can add the lines below to `/var/opt/mssql/mssql.conf` to skip SSSD calls and directly use LDAP calls.

```/var/opt/mssql/mssql.conf
[network]
disablesssd = true
```

## Next steps

In this tutorial, we walked through how to set up Active Directory authentication with SQL Server on Linux. You learned how to:
> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Join [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] host to AD domain
> * Create AD user for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] and set SPN
> * Configure [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] service keytab
> * Create AD-based logins in Transact-SQL
> * Connect to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using AD Authentication

Next, explore other security scenarios for SQL Server on Linux.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
>[Encrypting Connections to SQL Server on Linux](sql-server-linux-encrypted-connections.md)
