---
title: "Step 4: Adding a Flat File Destination | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/13/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2014"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: integration-services
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: f4088de3-16d8-419c-96a1-a2cd005d0a5b
author: janinezhang
ms.author: janinez
manager: craigg
---
# Step 4: Adding a Flat File Destination
  The error output of the Lookup Currency Key transformation redirects to the Script transformation any data rows that failed the lookup operation. To enhance information about the errors that occurred, the Script transformation runs a script that gets the description of errors.  
  
 In this task, you will save all this information about the failed rows to a delimited file for later processing. To save the failed rows, you must add and configure a Flat File connection manager for the text file that will contain the error data and a Flat File destination. By setting properties on the Flat File connection manager that the Flat File destination uses, you can specify how the Flat File destination formats and writes the text file. For more information, see [Flat File Connection Manager](connection-manager/file-connection-manager.md) and [Flat File Destination](data-flow/flat-file-destination.md).  
  
### To add and configure a Flat File destination  
  
1.  Click the **Data Flow** tab.  
  
2.  In the **SSIS Toolbox**, expand **Other**, and drag **Flat File Destination** onto the data flow design surface. Put the **Flat File Destination** directly underneath the **Get Error Description** transformation.  
  
3.  Click the **Get Error Description** transformation, and then drag the green arrow onto the new **Flat File Destination**.  
  
4.  On the **Data Flow** design surface, click **Flat File Destination** in the newly added **Flat File Destination** transformation, and change the name to **Failed Rows**.  
  
5.  Right-click the **Failed Rows** transformation, click **Edit**, and then in the **Flat File Destination Editor**, click **New**.  
  
6.  In the **Flat File Format** dialog box, verify that **Delimited** is selected, and then click **OK**.  
  
7.  In the **Flat File Connection Manager Editor**, in the **Connection Manager Name** box type `Error Data`.  
  
8.  In the **Flat File Connection Manager Editor** dialog box, click **Browse**, and locate the folder in which to store the file.  
  
9. In the **Open** dialog box, for **File name**, type `ErrorOutput.txt`, and then click **Open**.  
  
10. In the **Flat File Connection Manager Editor** dialog box, verify that the **Locale** box contains English (United States) and **Code page** contains 1252 (ANSI -Latin I).  
  
11. In the options pane, click **Columns**.  
  
     Notice that, in addition to the columns from the source data file, three new columns are present: ErrorCode, ErrorColumn, and ErrorDescription. These columns are generated by the error output of the Lookup Currency Key transformation and by the script in the Get Error Description transformation, and can be used to troubleshoot the cause of the failed row.  
  
12. Click **OK**.  
  
13. In the **Flat File Destination Editor**, clear the **Overwrite data in the file** check box.  
  
     Clearing this check box persists the errors over multiple package executions.  
  
14. In the **Flat File Destination Editor**, click **Mappings** to verify that all the columns are correct. Optionally, you can rename the columns in the destination.  
  
15. Click **OK**.  
  
## Next Steps  
 [Step 5: Testing the Lesson 4 Tutorial Package](../integration-services/lesson-4-5-testing-the-lesson-4-tutorial-package.md)  
  
  
