---
title: "Map Result Sets to Variables in an Execute SQL Task | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/13/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2014"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "integration-services"
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "result sets [Integration Services]"
  - "mapping result sets to variables [Integration Services]"
  - "variables [Integration Services], mapping result sets to"
ms.assetid: f76738b6-dc75-4ff9-a3dd-8b083d8e410e
author: janinezhang
ms.author: janinez
manager: craigg
---
# Map Result Sets to Variables in an Execute SQL Task
  This topic describes how to create a mapping between a result set and a variable in an Execute SQL task. Mapping a result set to a variable makes the result set available to other elements in the package. For example, a script in a Script task can read the variable and then use the values from the result set or an XML source can consume the result set stored in a variable. If the result set is generated by a parent package, the result set can be made available to a child package called by an Execute Package task by mapping the result set to a variable in the parent package, and then creating a parent package variable configuration in the child package to store the parent variable value.  
  
 For descriptions of the different types of result sets and the variable data types that you can map to result sets, see [Result Sets in the Execute SQL Task](control-flow/execute-sql-task.md).  
  
### To map a result set to a variable  
  
1.  In [!INCLUDE[ssBIDevStudioFull](../includes/ssbidevstudiofull-md.md)], open the [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] project that contains the package you want.  
  
2.  In **Solution Explorer**, double-click the package to open it.  
  
3.  Click the **Control Flow** tab.  
  
4.  If the package does not already include an Execute SQL task, add one to the control flow of the package. For more information, see [Add or Delete a Task or a Container in a Control Flow](control-flow/add-or-delete-a-task-or-a-container-in-a-control-flow.md)  
  .  
  
5.  Double-click the Execute SQL task.  
  
6.  In the **Execute SQL Task Editor** dialog box, on the **General** page, select the **Single row**, **Full result set**, or **XML** result set type.  
  
     For descriptions of the different result sets, see [Result Sets in the Execute SQL Task](result-sets-in-the-execute-sql-task.md)  
  
7.  Click **Result Set**.  
  
8.  To add a result set mapping, click **Add**.  
  
9. From the **Variables Name** list, select a variable or create a new variable. For more information, see [Add, Delete, Change Scope of User-Defined Variable in a Package](../../2014/integration-services/add-delete-change-scope-of-user-defined-variable-in-a-package.md).  
  
     For descriptions of the variable data types that you can map to the different result sets, see [Result Sets in the Execute SQL Task](result-sets-in-the-execute-sql-task.md).  
  
     For information on how to map a variable to a single column and to map multiple variables to multiple columns, see the **Populating a Variable with a Result Set** section in [Result Sets in the Execute SQL Task](control-flow/execute-sql-task.md).  
  
10. In the **Result Name** list, optionally, modify the name of the result set.  
  
     In general, you can use the column name as the result set name, or you can use the ordinal position of the column in the column list as the result set. The ability to use a column name as the result set name depends on the provider that the task is configured to use. Not all providers make column names available.  
  
11. Click **OK**.  
  
## See Also  
 [Execute SQL Task](control-flow/execute-sql-task.md)   
 [Result Sets in the Execute SQL Task](result-sets-in-the-execute-sql-task.md)   
 [Execute Package Task](control-flow/execute-package-task.md)   
 [Package Configurations](../../2014/integration-services/package-configurations.md)   
 [Create Package Configurations](../../2014/integration-services/create-package-configurations.md)   
 [Use the Values of Variables and Parameters in a Child Package](../../2014/integration-services/use-the-values-of-variables-and-parameters-in-a-child-package.md)   
 [Integration Services &#40;SSIS&#41; Variables](integration-services-ssis-variables.md)  
  
  
