---
title: "Script Task Editor (Script Page) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/13/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2014"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "integration-services"
ms.topic: conceptual
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql12.dts.designer.scripttask.script.f1"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Script Task Editor"
ms.assetid: 93da0e0d-83f5-406d-b144-4cce216571cb
author: janinezhang
ms.author: janinez
manager: craigg
---
# Script Task Editor (Script Page)
  Use the **Script** page of the **Script Task Editor** dialog box to set script properties and specify variables that can be accessed by the script.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  In [!INCLUDE[ssISversion10](../includes/ssisversion10-md.md)] and later versions, all scripts are precompiled. In earlier versions, you set a **PrecompileScriptIntoBinaryCode** property to specify that the script was precompiled.  
  
 To learn more about the Script task, see [Script Task](control-flow/script-task.md) and [Configuring the Script Task in the Script Task Editor](extending-packages-scripting/task/configuring-the-script-task-in-the-script-task-editor.md). To learn about programming the Script task, see [Extending the Package with the Script Task](extending-packages-scripting/task/extending-the-package-with-the-script-task.md).  
  
## Options  
 **ScriptLanguage**  
 Select the scripting language for the task, either [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../includes/msconame-md.md)] Visual Basic or [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../includes/msconame-md.md)] Visual C#.  
  
 After you have created a script for the task, you cannot change the value of the **ScriptLanguage** property.  
  
 To set the default scripting language for the Script task, use the **Scripting language** option on **General** page of the **Options** dialog box. For more information, see [General Page](general-page-of-integration-services-designers-options.md).  
  
 **EntryPoint**  
 Specify the method that the [!INCLUDE[ssISnoversion](../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] runtime calls as the entry point into the code of the Script task. The specified method must be in the ScriptMain class of the [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../includes/msconame-md.md)] [!INCLUDE[vsprvs](../includes/vsprvs-md.md)] Tools for Applications (VSTA) project The ScriptMain class is the default class generated by the script templates.  
  
 If you change the name of the method in the VSTA project, you must change the value of the **EntryPoint** property.  
  
 **ReadOnlyVariables**  
 Type a comma-separated list of read-only variables that are available to the script, or click the ellipsis (**...**) button and select the variables in the **Select variables** dialog box.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  Variable names are case sensitive.  
  
 **ReadWriteVariables**  
 Type a comma-separated list of read/write variables that are available to the script, or click the ellipsis (**...**) button and select the variables in the **Select variables** dialog box.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  Variable names are case sensitive.  
  
 **Edit Script**  
 Opens the VSTA IDE where you can create or modify the script.  
  
## See Also  
 [Integration Services Error and Message Reference](../../2014/integration-services/integration-services-error-and-message-reference.md)   
 [General Page](general-page-of-integration-services-designers-options.md)   
 [Script Task Editor &#40;General Page&#41;](../../2014/integration-services/script-task-editor-general-page.md)   
 [Expressions Page](expressions/expressions-page.md)   
 [Script Task Examples](extending-packages-scripting-task-examples/script-task-examples.md)   
 [Integration Services &#40;SSIS&#41; Variables](integration-services-ssis-variables.md)   
 [Add, Delete, Change Scope of User-Defined Variable in a Package](../../2014/integration-services/add-delete-change-scope-of-user-defined-variable-in-a-package.md)  
  
  
