---
title: Updated - SSDT for SQL Server docs | Microsoft Docs
description: Display snippets of updated content for recently changed in documentation, for SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT) for Microsoft SQL Server.

manager: craigg
author: MightyPen
ms.author: genemi
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: UpdArt.exe
ms.suite: sql
ms.technology: release-landing
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: sql-non-specified

ms.component: ssdt
ms.date: 04/28/2018
---
# New and Recently Updated: SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)



Nearly every day Microsoft updates some of its existing articles on its [Docs.Microsoft.com](http://docs.microsoft.com/) documentation website. This article displays excerpts from recently updated articles. Links to new articles might also be listed.

This article is generated by a program that is rerun periodically. Occasionally an excerpt can appear with imperfect formatting, or as markdown from the source article. Images are never displayed here.

Recent updates are reported for the following date range and subject:



- *Date range of updates:* &nbsp; **2018-02-03** &nbsp; -to- &nbsp; **2018-04-28**
- *Subject area:* &nbsp; **SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)**.




&nbsp;

## New Articles Created Recently

The following links jump to new articles that have been added recently.


1. [Azure Active Directory support in SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)](azure-active-directory.md)



&nbsp;

## Updated Articles with Excerpts

This section displays the excerpts of updates gathered from articles that have recently experienced a large update.

The excerpts displayed here appear separated from their proper semantic context. Also, sometimes an excerpt is separated from important markdown syntax that surrounds it in the actual article. Therefore these excerpts are for general guidance only. The excerpts only enable you to know whether your interests warrant taking the time to click and visit the actual article.

For these and other reasons, do not copy code from these excerpts, and do not take as exact truth any text excerpt. Instead, visit the actual article.





&nbsp;

<a name="compactupdatedlist"/>

### Compact List of Articles Updated Recently

This compact list provides links to all the updated articles that are listed in the Excerpts section.

1. [Changelog for SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)](#TitleNum_1)




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

<a name="TitleNum_1"/>

### 1. &nbsp; [Changelog for SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)](changelog-for-sql-server-data-tools-ssdt.md)

*Updated: 2018-04-25* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 

<!-- Source markdown line 29.  ms.author= "sstein".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 de18314845cffa197b3fd2ed868f2c330760bedb 5487de1ed57c16a6517a3a8849f412c208f1889f  (PR=5676  ,  Filename=changelog-for-sql-server-data-tools-ssdt.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\ssdt\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=a85a46312acf8b5a59a8a900310cf088369c4150) -->





**SSDT for Visual Studio 2017 (15.6.0)**

Build number: 14.0.16162.0
Release date: April 10, 2018

**What's New?**


**SSIS:**

1.	Fix an issue that AS processing task doesn't log any processing steps when targeting to SQLServer2016 and SQLServer2017
2.	Fix an issue that access violation will happen when opening dtsx with very long non-English task names in SSDT
3.	Fix an issue that sometimes variable list of ScriptTask will disappear in task UI
4.	Fix an issue that adding copy of existing package will fail when the package location is SQL Server
5.	Fix an issue that focus gets stuck while accessing the combo box in some editor dialog box.
6.	Fix an issue that background will not change while switching VS theme.
7.	Fix an issue that annotation and loading label is invisible in dark theme.
8.	Fix an issue that the state property is not defined correctly for SSIS toolbox disabled items.
9.	Fix an issue that it always fails to execute WebServiceTask.
10.	Fix an issue that package deployment will fail if connection string is set to variable having expression dependent on project parameters.

**Installer:**

1.	Add the link of "Customer Experience Improvement Program for SQL Server Data Tools" in privacy disclaimer.
2.	Fix an issue that VS installer window will popup when selecting "Install new SQL Server Data Tools for Visual Studio 2017 instance"

**Known issues:**

1.	SSIS Execute Package Task doesn't support debugging when ExecuteOutOfProcess is set to True. This issue only applies to debugging. Save, deploy, and execution via DTExec.exe or SSIS catalog is not impacted.



**SSDT for Visual Studio 2017 (15.5.2)**

Build number: 14.0.16156.0

**What's New?**


**SSIS**
1.	Fix an issue that migrating SSIS 2008 projects will fail when both SSAS and SSIS are installed to the same VS 2017 instance.
2.	Fix an issue that Rdlc projects cannot be built when both Rdlc report designer and SSIS are installed to same VS 2017 instance.







## Similar articles about new or updated articles

This section lists very similar articles for recently updated articles in other subject areas, within our public GitHub.com repository: [MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs/).



#### Subject areas that *do* have new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (11+6): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Advanced Analytics for SQL** docs](../advanced-analytics/new-updated-advanced-analytics.md)
- [New + Updated (18+0): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Analysis Services for SQL** docs](../analysis-services/new-updated-analysis-services.md)
- [New + Updated (218+14): **Connect to SQL** docs](../connect/new-updated-connect.md)
- [New + Updated (14+0): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Database Engine for SQL** docs](../database-engine/new-updated-database-engine.md)
- [New + Updated (3+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Integration Services for SQL** docs](../integration-services/new-updated-integration-services.md)
- [New + Updated (3+3): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Linux for SQL** docs](../linux/new-updated-linux.md)
- [New + Updated (7+10): &nbsp; &nbsp;**Relational Databases for SQL** docs](../relational-databases/new-updated-relational-databases.md)
- [New + Updated (0+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Reporting Services for SQL** docs](../reporting-services/new-updated-reporting-services.md)
- [New + Updated (1+3): &nbsp; &nbsp; **SQL Operations Studio** docs](../sql-operations-studio/new-updated-sql-operations-studio.md)
- [New + Updated (2+3): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Microsoft SQL Server** docs](../sql-server/new-updated-sql-server.md)
- [New + Updated (1+1): &nbsp; &nbsp; **SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)** docs](../ssdt/new-updated-ssdt.md)
- [New + Updated (5+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)** docs](../ssms/new-updated-ssms.md)
- [New + Updated (0+2): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Transact-SQL** docs](../t-sql/new-updated-t-sql.md)
- [New + Updated (1+1): &nbsp; &nbsp; **Tools for SQL** docs](../tools/new-updated-tools.md)



#### Subject areas that do *not* have any new or recently updated articles

- [New + Updated (0+0): **Analytics Platform System for SQL** docs](../analytics-platform-system/new-updated-analytics-platform-system.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Quality Services for SQL** docs](../data-quality-services/new-updated-data-quality-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Mining Extensions (DMX) for SQL** docs](../dmx/new-updated-dmx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Master Data Services (MDS) for SQL** docs](../master-data-services/new-updated-master-data-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Multidimensional Expressions (MDX) for SQL** docs](../mdx/new-updated-mdx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) for SQL** docs](../odbc/new-updated-odbc.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **PowerShell for SQL** docs](../powershell/new-updated-powershell.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Samples for SQL** docs](../samples/new-updated-samples.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA)** docs](../ssma/new-updated-ssma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **XQuery for SQL** docs](../xquery/new-updated-xquery.md)

