docs/relational-databases/tables/stopping-system-versioning-on-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md, before:

---
title: "Stopping System-Versioning on a System-Versioned Temporal Table | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "10/11/2016"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine, sql-database"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: table-view-index
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: dddd707e-bfb1-44ff-937b-a84c5e5d1a94
author: "CarlRabeler"
ms.author: "carlrab"
manager: craigg
monikerRange: "=azuresqldb-current||>=sql-server-2016||=sqlallproducts-allversions||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# Stopping System-Versioning on a System-Versioned Temporal Table
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2016-asdb-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2016-asdb-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]

  You may want to stop versioning on your temporal table either temporarily or permanently.   
You can do that by setting **SYSTEM_VERSIONING** clause to **OFF**.  
  
## Setting SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF  
 Stop system-versioning if you want to perform specific maintenance operations on temporal table or if you don't need a versioned table anymore. As a result of this operation you will get two independent tables:  
  
-   Current table with period definition  
  
-   History table as a regular table  
  
### Important remarks  
  
-   No data loss happens when you set  **SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF** or drop the **SYSTEM_TIME** period.  
  
-   When you set **SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF** and do not remove drop the **SYSTEM_TIME** period, the system will continue to update the period columns for every insert and update operation. Deletes on current table will be permanent.  
  
-   Drop the **SYSTEM_TIME** period to remove the period columns completely.  
  
-   When you set **SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF**, all users that have sufficient permissions will be able to modify schema and content of history table or even to permanently delete the history table.  
  
### Permanently remove SYSTEM_VERSIONING  
 This example permanently removes SYSTEM_VERSIONING and removes the period columns completely. Removing the period columns is optional.  
  
```  
ALTER TABLE dbo.Department SET (SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF);   
/*Optionally, DROP PERIOD if you want to revert temporal table to a non-temporal*/   
ALTER TABLE dbo.Department   
DROP PERIOD FOR SYSTEM_TIME;  
  
```  
  
### Temporarily remove SYSTEM_VERSIONING  
 This is the list of operations that requires system-versioning to be set to **OFF**:  
  
-   Removing unnecessary data from history (**DELETE** or **TRUNCATE**)  
  
-   Removing data from current table without versioning (**DELETE**, **TRUNCATE**)  
  
-   Partition **SWITCH OUT** from current table  
  
-   Partition **SWITCH IN** into history table  
  
 This example temporarily stops SYSTEM_VERSIONING to allow you to perform specific maintenance operations. If you stop versioning temporarily as a prerequisite for table maintenance, we strongly recommend doing this inside a transaction to keep data consistency.
 
> [!NOTE]  
>  When turning system versioning back on, do not forget to specify the HISTORY_TABLE argument.  Failing to do so will result in a new history table being created and associated with the current table.  The original history table will still exist as a normal table, but won't be associated with the current table.  
  
```  
BEGIN TRAN   
ALTER TABLE dbo.Department SET (SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF);   
TRUNCATE TABLE [History].[DepartmentHistory]   
WITH (PARTITIONS (1,2))   
ALTER TABLE dbo.Department SET    
(   
SYSTEM_VERSIONING = ON (HISTORY_TABLE = History.DepartmentHistory)   
);   
COMMIT ;  
  
```  
  
## See Also  
 [Temporal Tables](../../relational-databases/tables/temporal-tables.md)   
 [Getting Started with System-Versioned Temporal Tables](../../relational-databases/tables/getting-started-with-system-versioned-temporal-tables.md)   
 [Manage Retention of Historical Data in System-Versioned Temporal Tables](../../relational-databases/tables/manage-retention-of-historical-data-in-system-versioned-temporal-tables.md)   
 [System-Versioned Temporal Tables with Memory-Optimized Tables](../../relational-databases/tables/system-versioned-temporal-tables-with-memory-optimized-tables.md)   
 [Creating a System-Versioned Temporal Table](../../relational-databases/tables/creating-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md)   
 [Modifying Data in a System-Versioned Temporal Table](../../relational-databases/tables/modifying-data-in-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md)   
 [Querying Data in a System-Versioned Temporal Table](../../relational-databases/tables/querying-data-in-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md)   
 [Changing the Schema of a System-Versioned Temporal Table](../../relational-databases/tables/changing-the-schema-of-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md)

Commit message:

wording "No data loss happens" is confusing
Depending on what user interprets "No data loss happens" out come is different. When SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF, history table stops capturing any more updates hence it is better to clearly state that.

docs/relational-databases/tables/stopping-system-versioning-on-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md, after:

---
title: "Stopping System-Versioning on a System-Versioned Temporal Table | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "10/11/2016"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine, sql-database"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: table-view-index
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.assetid: dddd707e-bfb1-44ff-937b-a84c5e5d1a94
author: "CarlRabeler"
ms.author: "carlrab"
manager: craigg
monikerRange: "=azuresqldb-current||>=sql-server-2016||=sqlallproducts-allversions||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# Stopping System-Versioning on a System-Versioned Temporal Table
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2016-asdb-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2016-asdb-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]

  You may want to stop versioning on your temporal table either temporarily or permanently.   
You can do that by setting **SYSTEM_VERSIONING** clause to **OFF**.  
  
## Setting SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF  
 Stop system-versioning if you want to perform specific maintenance operations on temporal table or if you don't need a versioned table anymore. As a result of this operation you will get two independent tables:  
  
-   Current table with period definition  
  
-   History table as a regular table  
  
### Important remarks  
-   History Table will **stop** caturing the updates for the duration of **SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF**.
-   No data loss happens on the **temporal table** when you set  **SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF** or drop the **SYSTEM_TIME** period.
  
-   When you set **SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF** and do not remove drop the **SYSTEM_TIME** period, the system will continue to update the period columns for every insert and update operation. Deletes on current table will be permanent.  
  
-   Drop the **SYSTEM_TIME** period to remove the period columns completely.  
  
-   When you set **SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF**, all users that have sufficient permissions will be able to modify schema and content of history table or even to permanently delete the history table.  
  
### Permanently remove SYSTEM_VERSIONING  
 This example permanently removes SYSTEM_VERSIONING and removes the period columns completely. Removing the period columns is optional.  
  
```  
ALTER TABLE dbo.Department SET (SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF);   
/*Optionally, DROP PERIOD if you want to revert temporal table to a non-temporal*/   
ALTER TABLE dbo.Department   
DROP PERIOD FOR SYSTEM_TIME;  
  
```  
  
### Temporarily remove SYSTEM_VERSIONING  
 This is the list of operations that requires system-versioning to be set to **OFF**:  
  
-   Removing unnecessary data from history (**DELETE** or **TRUNCATE**)  
  
-   Removing data from current table without versioning (**DELETE**, **TRUNCATE**)  
  
-   Partition **SWITCH OUT** from current table  
  
-   Partition **SWITCH IN** into history table  
  
 This example temporarily stops SYSTEM_VERSIONING to allow you to perform specific maintenance operations. If you stop versioning temporarily as a prerequisite for table maintenance, we strongly recommend doing this inside a transaction to keep data consistency.
 
> [!NOTE]  
>  When turning system versioning back on, do not forget to specify the HISTORY_TABLE argument.  Failing to do so will result in a new history table being created and associated with the current table.  The original history table will still exist as a normal table, but won't be associated with the current table.  
  
```  
BEGIN TRAN   
ALTER TABLE dbo.Department SET (SYSTEM_VERSIONING = OFF);   
TRUNCATE TABLE [History].[DepartmentHistory]   
WITH (PARTITIONS (1,2))   
ALTER TABLE dbo.Department SET    
(   
SYSTEM_VERSIONING = ON (HISTORY_TABLE = History.DepartmentHistory)   
);   
COMMIT ;  
  
```  
  
## See Also  
 [Temporal Tables](../../relational-databases/tables/temporal-tables.md)   
 [Getting Started with System-Versioned Temporal Tables](../../relational-databases/tables/getting-started-with-system-versioned-temporal-tables.md)   
 [Manage Retention of Historical Data in System-Versioned Temporal Tables](../../relational-databases/tables/manage-retention-of-historical-data-in-system-versioned-temporal-tables.md)   
 [System-Versioned Temporal Tables with Memory-Optimized Tables](../../relational-databases/tables/system-versioned-temporal-tables-with-memory-optimized-tables.md)   
 [Creating a System-Versioned Temporal Table](../../relational-databases/tables/creating-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md)   
 [Modifying Data in a System-Versioned Temporal Table](../../relational-databases/tables/modifying-data-in-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md)   
 [Querying Data in a System-Versioned Temporal Table](../../relational-databases/tables/querying-data-in-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md)   
 [Changing the Schema of a System-Versioned Temporal Table](../../relational-databases/tables/changing-the-schema-of-a-system-versioned-temporal-table.md)
