---
title: "Using IMultipleResults to Process Multiple Result Sets | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/06/2017"
ms.prod: "sql-server-2014"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: native-client
ms.topic: "reference"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "multiple rowsets"
  - "rowsets [OLE DB], multiple"
  - "IMultipleResults interface"
  - "multiple-rowset results"
ms.assetid: 754d3f30-7d94-4b67-8dac-baf2699ce9c6
author: MightyPen
ms.author: genemi
manager: craigg
---
# Using IMultipleResults to Process Multiple Result Sets
  Consumers use the **IMultipleResults** interface to process results returned by [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Native Client OLE DB provider command execution. When the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Native Client OLE DB provider submits a command for execution, [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] executes the statements and returns any results.  
  
 A client must process all results from command execution. Because the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Native Client OLE DB provider command execution can generate multiple-rowset objects as results, use the **IMultipleResults** interface to ensure that application data retrieval completes the client-initiated round trip.  
  
 The following [!INCLUDE[tsql](../../includes/tsql-md.md)] statement generates multiple rowsets, some containing row data from the **OrderDetails** table and some containing results of the COMPUTE BY clause:  
  
```  
SELECT OrderID, FullPrice = (UnitPrice * Quantity), Discount,  
    Discounted = UnitPrice * (1 - Discount) * Quantity  
FROM OrderDetails  
ORDER BY OrderID  
COMPUTE  
    SUM(UnitPrice * Quantity), SUM(UnitPrice * (1 - Discount) * Quantity)  
    BY OrderID  
```  
  
 If a consumer executes a command containing this text and requests a rowset as the returned results interface, only the first set of rows is returned. The consumer may process all rows in the rowset returned. But, if the DBPROP_MULTIPLECONNECTIONS data source property is set to VARIANT_FALSE, and MARS is not enabled on the connection, no other commands can be executed on the session object (the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Native Client OLE DB provider will not create another connection) until the command is canceled. If MARS is not enabled on the connection, the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Native Client OLE DB provider returns a DB_E_OBJECTOPEN error if DBPROP_MULTIPLECONNECTIONS is VARIANT_FALSE and returns E_FAIL if there is an active transaction.  
  
 The [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Native Client OLE DB provider will also return DB_E_OBJECTOPEN when using streamed output parameters and the application has not consumed all the returned output parameter values before calling **IMultipleResults::GetResults** to get the next result set. If MARS is not enabled and the connection is busy running a command that does not produce a rowset or that produces a rowset that is not a server cursor, and if the DBPROP_MULTIPLECONNECTIONS data source property is set to VARIANT_TRUE, the [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Native Client OLE DB provider creates additional connections to support concurrent command objects, unless a transaction is active, in which case it returns an error. Transactions and locking are managed by [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] on a per connection basis. If a second connection is generated, the command on the separate connections does not share locks. Care must be taken to ensure that one command does not block another by holding locks on rows requested by the other command. If MARS is enabled, multiple commands can be active on the connections and if explicit transactions are being used, the commands all share a common transaction.  
  
 The consumer can cancel the command either by using [ISSAbort::Abort](../native-client-ole-db-interfaces/issabort-abort-ole-db.md) or by releasing all references held on the command object and the derived rowset.  
  
 Using **IMultipleResults** in all instances allows the consumer to get all rowsets generated by command execution and allows consumers to appropriately determine when to cancel command execution and free a session object for use by other commands.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  When you use [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] cursors, command execution creates the cursor. [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] returns success or failure on the cursor creation; therefore, the round trip to the instance of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] is complete upon the return from command execution. Each **GetNextRows** call then becomes a round trip. In this way, multiple active command objects can exist, each processing a rowset that is the result of a fetch from the server cursor. For more information, see [Rowsets and SQL Server Cursors](../native-client-ole-db-rowsets/rowsets-and-sql-server-cursors.md).  
  
## See Also  
 [Commands](commands.md)  
  
  
