---
title: Updated - Master Data Services for SQL Server docs | Microsoft Docs
description: Display snippets of updated content for recently changed in documentation, for Master Data Services (MDS) for Microsoft SQL Server.
services: na
documentationcenter: ''
author: MightyPen
manager: jhubbard
editor: ''
ms.service: na
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.technology: database-engine
ms.custom: UpdArt.exe
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.date: 07/17/2017
ms.author: genemi
ms.workload: master-data-services-mds
---
# New and Recently Updated: Master Data Services for SQL Server



Nearly every day Microsoft updates some of its existing articles on its [Docs.Microsoft.com](http://docs.microsoft.com/) documentation website. This article displays excerpts from recently updated articles. Links to new articles might also be listed.

This article is generated by a program that is rerun periodically. Occasionally an excerpt can appear with imperfect formatting, or as markdown from the source article. Images are never displayed here.

Recent updates are reported for the following date range and subject:



- *Date range of updates:* &nbsp; **2017-05-23** &nbsp; -to- &nbsp; **2017-07-17**
- *Subject area:* &nbsp; **Master Data Services (MDS) for SQL Server**.




&nbsp;

## New Articles Created Recently

The following links jump to new articles which have been added recently.


1. [Installing Master Data Services in an AlwaysOn Environment](installing-mds-in-an-alwayson-group-environment/installing-mds-in-an-alwayson-group-environment.md)




&nbsp;

<a name="compactupdatedlist"/>

## Compact List of Articles Updated Recently

This compact list provides links to all the updated articles which are listed in the Excerpts section.



&nbsp;

## Updated Articles with Excerpts

This section displays the excerpts of updates gathered from articles which have recently experienced a large update.

The excerpts displayed here appear separated from their proper semantic context. Also, sometimes an excerpt is separated from important markdown syntax that surrounds it in the actual article. Therefore these excerpts are for general guidance only. The excerpts only enable you to know whether your interests warrant taking the time to click and visit the actual article.

For these and other reasons, do not copy code from these excerpts, and do not take as exact truth any text excerpt. Instead, visit the actual article.



&nbsp;

***No articles in this area were updated recently, this time.***


