docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sql-data-warehouse-and-parallel-data-warehouse-catalog-views.md, before:

---
title: 'SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Catalog Views | Microsoft Docs'
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/15/2017"
ms.service: sql-data-warehouse
ms.reviewer: "jrasnick"
ms.topic: "language-reference"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
ms.assetid: ef6f58e2-0162-4bb2-951a-a786da7453e4
aauthor: ronortloff
ms.author: rortloff
manager: craigg
monikerRange: ">= aps-pdw-2016 || = azure-sqldw-latest || = sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Catalog Views
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-pdw-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-pdw-md.md)]

 This topic lists the [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] catalog views.  
  
 All [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] catalog views begin with **sys.pdw**.  
  
## [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] Catalog Views  
 The following catalog views apply to both [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)]:  
  
 [sys.pdw_column_distribution_properties &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-column-distribution-properties-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_distributions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-distributions-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_index_mappings &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-index-mappings-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_loader_backup_run_details &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-loader-backup-run-details-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_loader_backup_runs &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-loader-backup-runs-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_column_store_dictionaries &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-column-store-dictionaries-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_column_store_row_groups &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-column-store-row-groups-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_column_store_segments &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-column-store-segments-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_columns &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-columns-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_indexes &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-indexes-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_partitions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-partitions-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_pdw_physical_databases &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-pdw-physical-databases-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_tables &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-tables-transact-sql.md) 

 [sys.pdw_replicated_table_cache_state (Transact-SQL)](sys-pdw-replicated-table-cache-state-transact-sql.md) 
  
 [sys.pdw_table_distribution_properties &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-table-distribution-properties-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_table_mappings &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-table-mappings-transact-sql.md) 

[sys.workload_management_workload_classifier_details &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifier-details-transact-sql.md) (Preview)

[sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifiers-transact-sql.md) (Preview)
 
## [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] Catalog Views  
 The following catalog views apply to [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] only:

 [sys.pdw_database_mappings &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-database-mappings-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_diag_event_properties &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-diag-event-properties-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_diag_events &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-diag-events-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_diag_sessions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-diag-sessions-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_alerts &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-alerts-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_component_groups &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-component-groups-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_component_properties &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-component-properties-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_component_status_mappings &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-component-status-mappings-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_components &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-components-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_loader_run_stages &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-loader-run-stages-transact-sql.md)  
  
## See Also  
 [Catalog Views &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/catalog-views-transact-sql.md)

Commit message:

WLM updates for preview version

docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sql-data-warehouse-and-parallel-data-warehouse-catalog-views.md, after:

---
title: 'SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Catalog Views | Microsoft Docs'
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/15/2017"
ms.service: sql-data-warehouse
ms.reviewer: "jrasnick"
ms.topic: "language-reference"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
ms.assetid: ef6f58e2-0162-4bb2-951a-a786da7453e4
aauthor: ronortloff
ms.author: rortloff
manager: craigg
monikerRange: ">= aps-pdw-2016 || = azure-sqldw-latest || = sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Catalog Views
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-pdw-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-pdw-md.md)]

 This topic lists the [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] catalog views.  
  
 All [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] catalog views begin with **sys.pdw**.  
  
## [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] Catalog Views  
 The following catalog views apply to both [!INCLUDE[ssSDW](../../includes/sssdw-md.md)] and [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)]:  
  
 [sys.pdw_column_distribution_properties &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-column-distribution-properties-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_distributions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-distributions-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_index_mappings &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-index-mappings-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_loader_backup_run_details &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-loader-backup-run-details-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_loader_backup_runs &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-loader-backup-runs-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_column_store_dictionaries &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-column-store-dictionaries-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_column_store_row_groups &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-column-store-row-groups-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_column_store_segments &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-column-store-segments-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_columns &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-columns-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_indexes &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-indexes-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_partitions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-partitions-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_pdw_physical_databases &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-pdw-physical-databases-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_nodes_tables &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-nodes-tables-transact-sql.md) 

 [sys.pdw_replicated_table_cache_state (Transact-SQL)](sys-pdw-replicated-table-cache-state-transact-sql.md) 
  
 [sys.pdw_table_distribution_properties &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-table-distribution-properties-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_table_mappings &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-table-mappings-transact-sql.md) 

[sys.workload_management_workload_classifier_details &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifier-details-transact-sql.md) (Preview)

[sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifiers-transact-sql.md) (Preview)

> [!Note]
> Workload classification is available for preview on SQL Data Warehouse Gen2. Workload Management Classification and Importance preview is for builds with a release date of April 9th, 2019 or later.  Users should avoid using builds earlier than this date for workload management testing.  To determine if your build is workload management capable, run select @@version when connected to your SQL Data Warehouse instance.
 
## [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] Catalog Views  
 The following catalog views apply to [!INCLUDE[ssPDW](../../includes/sspdw-md.md)] only:

 [sys.pdw_database_mappings &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-database-mappings-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_diag_event_properties &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-diag-event-properties-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_diag_events &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-diag-events-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_diag_sessions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-diag-sessions-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_alerts &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-alerts-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_component_groups &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-component-groups-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_component_properties &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-component-properties-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_component_status_mappings &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-component-status-mappings-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_health_components &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-health-components-transact-sql.md)  
  
 [sys.pdw_loader_run_stages &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-pdw-loader-run-stages-transact-sql.md)  
  
## See Also  
 [Catalog Views &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/catalog-views-transact-sql.md)
