docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifier-details-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "sys.workload_management_workload_classifier_details (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/26/2019"
ms.prod: ""
ms.prod_service: "sql-data-warehouse"
ms.reviewer: "jrasnick"
ms.topic: "language-reference"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
author: "ronortloff"
ms.author: "rortloff"
manager: craigg
monikerRange: "=azure-sqldw-latest||=sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# sys.workload_management_workload_classifier_details (Transact-SQL) (Preview)

[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md.md)]

  Returns details for each classifier.  
  
|Column Name|Data Type|Description|Range|  
|-----------------|---------------|-----------------|-----------|
|classifier_id|**int**|ID of the classifier. Joinable to [sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers](sys-workload-management-workload-classifiers-transact-sql.md). Is not nullable.|
|classifier_type|**sysname**|The entity on which classification is being done. Is not nullable.|MEMBERNAME|
|classifier_value|**sysname**|The value of the classifier. Is not nullable.||

## Permissions

Requires VIEW SERVER STATE permission.

## Next steps
  
 For a list of all the catalog views for SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse, see [SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Catalog Views](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sql-data-warehouse-and-parallel-data-warehouse-catalog-views.md). To create a workload classifier, see [CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER](../../t-sql/statements/create-workload-classifier-transact-sql.md). For more information on workload classification, see SQL Data Warehouse [Workload Classification](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-classification) and [Workload Importance](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-classification)

Commit message:

WLM updates for preview version

docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifier-details-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "sys.workload_management_workload_classifier_details (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/26/2019"
ms.prod: ""
ms.prod_service: "sql-data-warehouse"
ms.reviewer: "jrasnick"
ms.topic: "language-reference"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
author: "ronortloff"
ms.author: "rortloff"
manager: craigg
monikerRange: "=azure-sqldw-latest||=sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# sys.workload_management_workload_classifier_details (Transact-SQL) (Preview)

[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md.md)]

> [!Note]
> Workload classification is available for preview on SQL Data Warehouse Gen2. Workload Management Classification and Importance preview is for builds with a release date of April 9th, 2019 or later.  Users should avoid using builds earlier than this date for workload management testing.  To determine if your build is workload management capable, run select @@version when connected to your SQL Data Warehouse instance.

  Returns details for each classifier.  
  
|Column Name|Data Type|Description|Range|  
|-----------------|---------------|-----------------|-----------|
|classifier_id|**int**|ID of the classifier. Joinable to [sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers](sys-workload-management-workload-classifiers-transact-sql.md). Is not nullable.|
|classifier_type|**sysname**|The entity on which classification is being done. Is not nullable.|MEMBERNAME|
|classifier_value|**sysname**|The value of the classifier. Is not nullable.||

## Permissions

Requires VIEW SERVER STATE permission.

## Next steps
  
 For a list of all the catalog views for SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse, see [SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Catalog Views](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sql-data-warehouse-and-parallel-data-warehouse-catalog-views.md). To create a workload classifier, see [CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER](../../t-sql/statements/create-workload-classifier-transact-sql.md). For more information on workload classification, see SQL Data Warehouse [Workload Classification](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-classification) and [Workload Importance](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-classification)
