docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifiers-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom:
ms.date: "03/13/2019"
ms.prod: ""
ms.prod_service: "sql-data-warehouse"
ms.reviewer: "jrasnick"
ms.topic: "language-reference"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
author: "ronortloff"
ms.author: "rortloff"
manager: craigg
monikerRange: "=azure-sqldw-latest||=sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers (Transact-SQL) (Preview)

[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md.md)]

 Returns details for workload classifiers.  
  
|Column Name|Data Type|Description|Range|  
|-----------------|---------------|-----------------|-----------|
|classifier_id|**int**|Unique ID of the classifier. Is not nullable||
group_name|**sysname**|Name of the workload group the classifier is assigned to. Is not nullable. |Static Resource Classes</br>staticrc10</br>staticrc20</br>staticrc30</br>staticrc40</br>staticrc50</br>staticrc60</br>staticrc70</br>staticrc80 </br> </br>Dynamic Resource Classes</br>smallrc</br>mediumrc</br>largerc</br>xlargerc|
name|**sysname**|Name of the classifier. Must be unique to the instance. Is not nullable.||
|importance|**sysname**|Is the relative importance of a request in this workload group and across workload groups for shared resources.  Importance specified in the classifier overrides the workload group importance setting.|low, below_normal, normal, above_normal, high |
|create_time|**datetime**|Time the classifier was created. Is not nullable.||
modify_time|**datetime**|Time the classifier was last modified. Is not nullable.||
is_enabled|**bit**|Displays whether the classifier is enabled or not. Is enabled by default. Is not nullable.|0 = the classifier is not enabled </br> 1 = the classifier is enabled|
|&nbsp;||||
  
## Permissions

Requires VIEW SERVER STATE permission.

## Next steps

 For a list of all the catalog views for SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse, see [SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Catalog Views](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sql-data-warehouse-and-parallel-data-warehouse-catalog-views.md). To create a workload classifier, see [CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER](../../t-sql/statements/create-workload-classifier-transact-sql.md). For more information on workload classification, see [SQL DATA Warehouse Workload Classification](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-classification)

Commit message:

WLM updates for preview version

docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-workload-management-workload-classifiers-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom:
ms.date: "03/13/2019"
ms.prod: ""
ms.prod_service: "sql-data-warehouse"
ms.reviewer: "jrasnick"
ms.topic: "language-reference"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
author: "ronortloff"
ms.author: "rortloff"
manager: craigg
monikerRange: "=azure-sqldw-latest||=sqlallproducts-allversions"
---
# sys.workload_management_workload_classifiers (Transact-SQL) (Preview)

[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-xxxxxx-xxxx-asdw-xxx-md.md)]

> [!Note]
> Workload classification is available for preview on SQL Data Warehouse Gen2. Workload Management Classification and Importance preview is for builds with a release date of April 9th, 2019 or later.  Users should avoid using builds earlier than this date for workload management testing.  To determine if your build is workload management capable, run select @@version when connected to your SQL Data Warehouse instance.

 Returns details for workload classifiers.  
  
|Column Name|Data Type|Description|Range|  
|-----------------|---------------|-----------------|-----------|
|classifier_id|**int**|Unique ID of the classifier. Is not nullable||
group_name|**sysname**|Name of the workload group the classifier is assigned to. Is not nullable. |Static Resource Classes</br>staticrc10</br>staticrc20</br>staticrc30</br>staticrc40</br>staticrc50</br>staticrc60</br>staticrc70</br>staticrc80 </br> </br>Dynamic Resource Classes</br>smallrc</br>mediumrc</br>largerc</br>xlargerc|
name|**sysname**|Name of the classifier. Must be unique to the instance. Is not nullable.||
|importance|**sysname**|Is the relative importance of a request in this workload group and across workload groups for shared resources.  Importance specified in the classifier overrides the workload group importance setting.|low, below_normal, normal, above_normal, high |
|create_time|**datetime**|Time the classifier was created. Is not nullable.||
modify_time|**datetime**|Time the classifier was last modified. Is not nullable.||
is_enabled|**bit**|Displays whether the classifier is enabled or not. Is enabled by default. Is not nullable.|0 = the classifier is not enabled </br> 1 = the classifier is enabled|
|&nbsp;||||
  
## Permissions

Requires VIEW SERVER STATE permission.

## Next steps

 For a list of all the catalog views for SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse, see [SQL Data Warehouse and Parallel Data Warehouse Catalog Views](../../relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sql-data-warehouse-and-parallel-data-warehouse-catalog-views.md). To create a workload classifier, see [CREATE WORKLOAD CLASSIFIER](../../t-sql/statements/create-workload-classifier-transact-sql.md). For more information on workload classification, see [SQL DATA Warehouse Workload Classification](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-workload-classification)
