---
title: Updated - T-SQL docs | Microsoft Docs
description: Display snippets of updated content for recently changed in documentation, for Transact-SQL.

manager: craigg
author: MightyPen
ms.author: genemi
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: UpdArt.exe
ms.suite: sql
ms.prod_service: sql-non-specified

ms.component: t-sql
ms.date: 02/03/2018
---
# New and Recently Updated: Transact-SQL docs



Nearly every day Microsoft updates some of its existing articles on its [Docs.Microsoft.com](http://docs.microsoft.com/) documentation website. This article displays excerpts from recently updated articles. Links to new articles might also be listed.

This article is generated by a program that is rerun periodically. Occasionally an excerpt can appear with imperfect formatting, or as markdown from the source article. Images are never displayed here.

Recent updates are reported for the following date range and subject:



- *Date range of updates:* &nbsp; **2017-12-03** &nbsp; -to- &nbsp; **2018-02-03**
- *Subject area:* &nbsp; **T-SQL**.




&nbsp;

## New Articles Created Recently

The following links jump to new articles that have been added recently.


***There are no new articles to list, this time.***



&nbsp;

## Updated Articles with Excerpts

This section displays the excerpts of updates gathered from articles that have recently experienced a large update.

The excerpts displayed here appear separated from their proper semantic context. Also, sometimes an excerpt is separated from important markdown syntax that surrounds it in the actual article. Therefore these excerpts are for general guidance only. The excerpts only enable you to know whether your interests warrant taking the time to click and visit the actual article.

For these and other reasons, do not copy code from these excerpts, and do not take as exact truth any text excerpt. Instead, visit the actual article.





&nbsp;

<a name="compactupdatedlist"/>

### Compact List of Articles Updated Recently

This compact list provides links to all the updated articles that are listed in the Excerpts section.

1. [CREATE STATISTICS (Transact-SQL)](#TitleNum_1)
2. [UPDATE STATISTICS (Transact-SQL)](#TitleNum_2)




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

<a name="TitleNum_1"/>

### 1. &nbsp; [CREATE STATISTICS (Transact-SQL)](statements/create-statistics-transact-sql.md)

*Updated: 2018-01-04* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Next](#TitleNum_2))

<!-- Source markdown line 200.  ms.author= "edmaca".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 384e68493597bcc36876a3c7bada2630106256e2 c22168ea59b6020e8ebe1ccac5fa6a6049e6db4d  (PR=4460  ,  Filename=create-statistics-transact-sql.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\t-sql\statements\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=4aeedbb88c60a4b035a49754eff48128714ad290) -->



MAXDOP = *max_degree_of_parallelism*
**Applies to**: SQL Server (Starting with SQL Server 2017 CU3).

 Overrides the **max degree of parallelism** configuration option for the duration of the statistic operation. For more information, see [Configure the max degree of parallelism Server Configuration Option](statements/../../database-engine/configure-windows/configure-the-max-degree-of-parallelism-server-configuration-option.md). Use MAXDOP to limit the number of processors used in a parallel plan execution. The maximum is 64 processors.

 *max_degree_of_parallelism* can be:

 1
 Suppresses parallel plan generation.

 \>1
 Restricts the maximum number of processors used in a parallel statistic operation to the specified number or fewer based on the current system workload.

 0 (default)
 Uses the actual number of processors or fewer based on the current system workload.

 \<update_stats_stream_option>
 Identified for informational purposes only. Not supported. Future compatibility is not guaranteed.




&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

<a name="TitleNum_2"/>

### 2. &nbsp; [UPDATE STATISTICS (Transact-SQL)](statements/update-statistics-transact-sql.md)

*Updated: 2018-01-04* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  ([Previous](#TitleNum_1))

<!-- Source markdown line 167.  ms.author= "edmaca".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 5721e21a9f43fa784fe9357c47cb2a814385e63d 24ae47c553635f389a182e5e643bf9bd6bf59e78  (PR=4460  ,  Filename=update-statistics-transact-sql.md  ,  Dirpath=docs\t-sql\statements\  ,  MergeCommitSha40=4aeedbb88c60a4b035a49754eff48128714ad290) -->



MAXDOP = *max_degree_of_parallelism*

**Applies to**: SQL Server (Starting with SQL Server 2017 CU3).

 Overrides the **max degree of parallelism** configuration option for the duration of the statistic operation. For more information, see [Configure the max degree of parallelism Server Configuration Option](statements/../../database-engine/configure-windows/configure-the-max-degree-of-parallelism-server-configuration-option.md). Use MAXDOP to limit the number of processors used in a parallel plan execution. The maximum is 64 processors.

 *max_degree_of_parallelism* can be:

 1
 Suppresses parallel plan generation.

 \>1
 Restricts the maximum number of processors used in a parallel statistic operation to the specified number or fewer based on the current system workload.

 0 (default)
 Uses the actual number of processors or fewer based on the current system workload.








## Similar articles about new or updated articles

This section lists very similar articles for recently updated articles in other subject areas, within our public GitHub.com repository: [MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs/).


#### Subject areas that *do* have new or recently updated articles


- [New + Updated (1+3):&nbsp; **Advanced Analytics for SQL** docs](../advanced-analytics/new-updated-advanced-analytics.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):&nbsp; **Analytics Platform System for SQL** docs](../analytics-platform-system/new-updated-analytics-platform-system.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):&nbsp; **Connect to SQL** docs](../connect/new-updated-connect.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):&nbsp; **Database Engine for SQL** docs](../database-engine/new-updated-database-engine.md)
- [New + Updated (12+1): **Integration Services for SQL** docs](../integration-services/new-updated-integration-services.md)
- [New + Updated (6+2):&nbsp; **Linux for SQL** docs](../linux/new-updated-linux.md)
- [New + Updated (15+0): **PowerShell for SQL** docs](../powershell/new-updated-powershell.md)
- [New + Updated (2+9):&nbsp; **Relational Databases for SQL** docs](../relational-databases/new-updated-relational-databases.md)
- [New + Updated (1+0):&nbsp; **Reporting Services for SQL** docs](../reporting-services/new-updated-reporting-services.md)
- [New + Updated (1+1):&nbsp; **SQL Operations Studio** docs](../sql-operations-studio/new-updated-sql-operations-studio.md)
- [New + Updated (1+1):&nbsp; **Microsoft SQL Server** docs](../sql-server/new-updated-sql-server.md)
- [New + Updated (0+1):&nbsp; **SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)** docs](../ssdt/new-updated-ssdt.md)
- [New + Updated (1+2):&nbsp; **SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)** docs](../ssms/new-updated-ssms.md)
- [New + Updated (0+2):&nbsp; **Transact-SQL** docs](../t-sql/new-updated-t-sql.md)



#### Subject areas that do *not* have any new or recently updated articles


- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Migration Assistant (DMA) for SQL** docs](../dma/new-updated-dma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **ActiveX Data Objects (ADO) for SQL** docs](../ado/new-updated-ado.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Analysis Services for SQL** docs](../analysis-services/new-updated-analysis-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Quality Services for SQL** docs](../data-quality-services/new-updated-data-quality-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Data Mining Extensions (DMX) for SQL** docs](../dmx/new-updated-dmx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Master Data Services (MDS) for SQL** docs](../master-data-services/new-updated-master-data-services.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Multidimensional Expressions (MDX) for SQL** docs](../mdx/new-updated-mdx.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) for SQL** docs](../odbc/new-updated-odbc.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Samples for SQL** docs](../samples/new-updated-samples.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA)** docs](../ssma/new-updated-ssma.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **Tools for SQL** docs](../tools/new-updated-tools.md)
- [New + Updated (0+0): **XQuery for SQL** docs](../xquery/new-updated-xquery.md)


