---
title: Updated - Transact-SQL docs | Microsoft Docs
description: Display snippets of updated content for recently changed in documentation, for T-SQL.
services: na
documentationcenter: ''
author: MightyPen
manager: jhubbard
editor: BYHAM
ms.service: na
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.technology: database-engine
ms.custom: UpdArt.exe
ms.workload: t-sql
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: updart-autogen
ms.date: 05/23/2017
ms.author: genemi
---
# New and Recently Updated: Transact-SQL docs



Nearly every day Microsoft updates some of its existing articles on its [Docs.Microsoft.com](http://docs.microsoft.com/) documentation website. This article displays excerpts from recently updated articles. Links to new articles might also be listed.

This article is generated by a program that is rerun periodically. Occasionally an excerpt can appear with imperfect formatting, or as markdown from the source article. Images are never displayed here.

Recent updates are reported for the following date range and subject:



- *Date range of updates:* &nbsp; **2017-05-01** &nbsp; -to- &nbsp; **2017-05-23**
- *Subject area:* &nbsp; **Transact-SQL**.




&nbsp;

## Updated Articles with Excerpts

This section displays the excerpts of updates gathered from articles which have recently experienced a large update.

The excerpts displayed here appear separated from their proper semantic context. Also, sometimes an excerpt is separated from important markdown syntax that surrounds it in the actual article. Therefore these excerpts are for general guidance only. The excerpts only enable you to know whether your interests warrant taking the time to click and visit the actual article.

For these and other reasons, do not copy code from these excerpts, and do not take as exact truth any text excerpt. Instead, visit the actual article.



&nbsp;

&nbsp;

<a name="TitleNum_1"/>

### 1. &nbsp; [SELECT - INTO Clause (Transact-SQL)](queries/select-into-clause-transact-sql.md)

*Updated: 2017-05-03* &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 

<!-- Source markdown line 225.  ms.author= "rickbyh".  -->

&nbsp;


<!-- git diff --ignore-all-space --unified=0 8042aeba01946e4b1f90056c22c9a7f308f5c688 b1c4754f71782241a842082cba14017b8b3dbdc8 -->



**F. Creating a new table as a copy of another table and loading it a specified filegroup**

The following example demostrates creating a new table as a copy of another table and loading it into a specified filegroup different from the default filegroup of the user.

 **Applies to:** [!INCLUDE[sssqlv14-md--../../includes/sssqlv14-md.md)]

```
ALTER DATABASE [AdventureWorksDW2016] ADD FILEGROUP FG2;
ALTER DATABASE [AdventureWorksDW2016]
ADD FILE
(
NAME='FG2_Data',
FILENAME = '/var/opt/mssql/data/AdventureWorksDW2016_Data1.mdf'
)
TO FILEGROUP FG2;
GO
SELECT *  INTO [dbo].[FactResellerSalesXL] ON FG2 from [dbo].[FactResellerSales]
```





&nbsp;

<a name="compactupdatedlist"/>

## Compact List of Articles Updated Recently

This compact list provides links to all the updated articles which are listed in the preceding section.

1. [SELECT - INTO Clause (Transact-SQL)](#TitleNum_1)


<a name="sisters2"/>

&nbsp;

## Sister Articles

This section lists very similar articles for recently updated articles in other subject areas, within the same GitHub repository.


&nbsp;

[Microsoft/**sql-docs-pr**](https://github.com/microsoftdocs/sql-docs-pr/) repository on GitHub.com:

- [Updated recently: **Relational Databases and Microsoft SQL Server** docs](/sql/relational-databases/relational-databases-new-updated-sql-docs-pr)
- [Updated recently: **Microsoft SQL Server** docs](/sql/sql-server/sql-server-new-updated-sql-docs-pr)
- [Updated recently: **Transact-SQL in SQL Server** docs](/sql/t-sql/t-sql-new-updated-sql-docs-pr)


&nbsp;

<!--
[Microsoft/**azure-docs**](https://github.com/microsoft/azure-docs/) repository on GitHub.com:

- [Sisters list for **azure-docs** repo](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sql-server-new-updated-azure-docs/#sisters2)
-->

&nbsp;

