docs/sql-server/install/hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server-2022.md, before:

---
title: "SQL Server 2022: Hardware & software requirements"
description: A list of hardware, software, and operating system requirements for installing and running SQL Server 2022.
author: MikeRayMSFT
ms.author: mikeray
ms.reviewer: randolphwest, jopilov, rdorr
ms.date: 11/28/2023
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: release-landing
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Setup [SQL Server], software"
  - "software [SQL Server]"
  - "installing SQL Server, software"
  - "operating systems [SQL Server], SQL Server requirements"
  - "Setup [SQL Server], cross-language support"
  - "operating systems [SQL Server], cross-language support"
  - "network connections [SQL Server], requirements"
  - "disk space [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "WOW [SQL Server]"
  - "Setup [SQL Server], hardware"
  - "dependencies [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "cluster hardware requirements [SQL Server]"
  - "endpoints [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "Internet [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "hardware [SQL Server]"
  - "Windows on Windows [SQL Server]"
  - "installing SQL Server, hardware"
  - "Setup Configuration Checker"
  - "SCC [SQL Server]"
  - "operating systems [SQL Server]"
  - "space [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "system configuration checker"
  - "installing SQL Server, cross-language support"
  - "Internet [SQL Server]"
  - "space [SQL Server]"
  - "extended system support [SQL Server]"
  - "64-bit edition [SQL Server]"
  - "failover clustering [SQL Server]"
  - "failover clustering [SQL Server], hardware requirements"
  - "32-bit edition [SQL Server]"
  - "locales [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "cross-language support"
  - "disk space [SQL Server]"
  - "localized SQL Server versions"
---

# SQL Server 2022: Hardware and software requirements

[!INCLUDE [SQL Server -Windows Only](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-windows-only.md)]

The article lists the minimum hardware and software requirements to install and run [!INCLUDE [sssql22-md](../../includes/sssql22-md.md)] on the Windows operating system.

For hardware and software requirements for other versions of [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], see:

- [SQL Server 2019](hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server-2019.md)
- [SQL Server 2016 and 2017](hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server.md)
- [SQL Server on Linux](../../linux/sql-server-linux-setup.md#system)

## <a id="pmosr"></a> Hardware requirements

The following memory and processor requirements apply to all editions of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]:

| Component | Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| Storage | [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] requires a minimum of 6 GB of available hard drive space.<br /><br />Disk space requirements vary with the [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] components you install. For more information, see [Hard Disk Space Requirements](../../sql-server/install/hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server.md#HardDiskSpace) later in this article. For information on supported storage types for data files, see [Storage Types for Data Files](../../sql-server/install/hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server.md#StorageTypes). |
| Monitor | [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] requires Super-VGA (800x600) or higher resolution monitor. |
| Internet | Internet functionality requires Internet access (fees can apply). |
| Memory <sup>1</sup> | **Minimum:**<br /><br />Express Editions: 512 MB<br /><br />All other editions: 1 GB<br /><br />**Recommended:**<br /><br />Express Editions: 1 GB<br /><br />All other editions: At least 4 GB and should be increased as database size increases to ensure optimal performance. |
| Processor Speed | **Minimum:** x64 Processor: 1.4 GHz<br /><br />**Recommended:** 2.0 GHz or faster |
| Processor Type | x64 Processor: AMD Opteron, AMD Athlon 64, Intel Xeon with Intel EM64T support, Intel Pentium IV with EM64T support |

<sup>1</sup> The minimum memory required for installing the [!INCLUDE [ssDQSServer](../../includes/ssdqsserver-md.md)] component in [!INCLUDE [ssDQSnoversion](../../includes/ssdqsnoversion-md.md)] (DQS) is 2 GB of RAM, which is different from the [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] minimum memory requirement. For information about installing DQS, see [Install Data Quality Services](../../data-quality-services/install-windows/install-data-quality-services.md).

> [!NOTE]  
> Installation of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] is supported on x64 processors only. It is no longer supported on x86 processors.

## <a id="hwswr"></a> Software requirements

The following requirements apply to all installations:

| Component | Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| Operating system | Windows 10 1607 or greater<br /><br />Windows Server 2016 or greater. |
| .NET Framework | Minimum operating systems include minimum .NET framework. |
| Network Software | Supported operating systems for [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] have built-in network software. Named and default instances of a stand-alone installation support the following network protocols: Shared memory, Named Pipes, and TCP/IP. |

[!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup installs the following software components required by the product:

- [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Native Client
- [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup support files

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> There are additional hardware and software requirements for the PolyBase feature. For more information, see [Introducing data virtualization with PolyBase](../../relational-databases/polybase/polybase-guide.md).

## Operating system support

The following table shows which editions of [!INCLUDE [sssql22-md](../../includes/sssql22-md.md)] are compatible with which versions of Windows:

| [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] edition: | Enterprise | Developer | Standard | Web | Express |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :-- | :--- |
| Windows Server 2022 Datacenter | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2022 Datacenter: Azure Edition | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2022 Standard | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2022 Essentials | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2019 Datacenter | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2019 Standard | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2019 Essentials | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2016 Datacenter | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2016 Standard | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2016 Essentials | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows 11 IoT Enterprise | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 11 Enterprise | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 11 Professional | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 11 Home | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 10 IoT Enterprise | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 10 Enterprise | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 10 Professional | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 10 Home | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |

### Server Core support

Installing [!INCLUDE [sssql22-md](../../includes/sssql22-md.md)] on Server Core mode is supported by the following editions of Windows Server:

- Windows Server 2022 Core
- Windows Server 2019 Core
- Windows Server 2016 Core

For more information on installing [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]  on Server Core, see [Install [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]  on Server Core](../../database-engine/install-windows/install-sql-server-on-server-core.md).

## <a id="CrossLanguageSupport"></a> Cross-language support

For more information about cross-language support and considerations for installing [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] in localized languages, see [Local Language Versions in [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]](../../sql-server/install/local-language-versions-in-sql-server.md).

## <a id="HardDiskSpace"></a> Disk space requirements

During installation of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], Windows Installer creates temporary files on the system drive. Before you run Setup to install or upgrade [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], verify that you have at least 6.0 GB of available disk space on the system drive for these files. This requirement applies even if you install [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] components to a non-default drive.

Actual hard disk space requirements depend on your system configuration and the features that you decide to install. The following table provides disk space requirements for [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] components.

| **Feature** | **Disk space requirement** |
| --- | ---: |
| [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] and data files, Replication, Full-Text Search, and Data Quality Services | 1,480 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] (as above) with R Services (In-Database) | 2,744 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] (as above) with PolyBase Query Service for External Data | 4,194 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssASnoversion](../../includes/ssasnoversion-md.md)] and data files | 698 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssRSnoversion](../../includes/ssrsnoversion-md.md)] | 967 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [rsql_platform](../../includes/rsql-platform-md.md)] (Standalone) | 280 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssRSnoversion](../../includes/ssrsnoversion-md.md)] - SharePoint | 1,203 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssRSnoversion](../../includes/ssrsnoversion-md.md)] Add-in for SharePoint Products | 325 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssDQSClient](../../includes/ssdqsclient-md.md)] | 121 MB |
| Client Tools Connectivity | 328 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssISnoversion](../../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] | 306 MB |
| Client Components (other than [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Books Online components and Integration Services tools) | 445 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssMDSshort](../../includes/ssmdsshort-md.md)] | 280 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Books Online Components to view and manage help content <sup>1</sup> | 27 MB |
| All features | 8,030 MB |

<sup>1</sup> The disk space requirement for downloaded Books Online content is 200 MB.

## <a id="StorageTypes"></a> Storage types for data files

The supported storage types for data files are:

- Local Disk
  - [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] currently supports disk drives that have standard native sector sizes of 512 bytes and 4 KB. For more information about support for larger sector sizes and manufacturer implementations, see the section "4-KB disk sector sizes" in the white paper *SQLIOBasicsCh2.doc*. You can download the whitepaper from the [Download](/previous-versions/sql/sql-server-2005/administrator/cc917726(v=technet.10)#download) section of the [SQL Server I/O Basics, Chapter 2](/previous-versions/sql/sql-server-2005/administrator/cc917726(v=technet.10)) article.

       If you use advanced format disks that are physically formatted with 4,096 bytes, but expose a logical sector size of 512 bytes, you can read more about the behavior and recommendations in the Tech Community article [SQL Server - New drives use 4K sector size](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/sql-server-support-blog/sql-server-new-drives-use-4k-sector-size/ba-p/316277).

       Hard disks with sector sizes larger than 4 KB can cause errors when attempting to store SQL Server data files on them. For more information, see [Troubleshoot errors related to system disk sector size greater than 4 KB](/troubleshoot/sql/database-engine/database-file-operations/troubleshoot-os-4kb-disk-sector-size).
  - [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] failover cluster installation supports Local Disk only for installing the `tempdb` files. Ensure that the path specified for the `tempdb` data and log files is valid on all the cluster nodes. During failover, if the `tempdb` directories aren't available on the failover target node, the [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] resource fails to come online.
- Shared Storage
- [Storage Spaces Direct \(S2D\)](/windows-server/storage/storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-overview)
- SMB File Share
  - SMB storage isn't supported for [!INCLUDE [ssASnoversion](../../includes/ssasnoversion-md.md)] data files for either standalone or clustered installations. Use direct attached storage, a storage area network, or S2D instead.
  - SMB storage can be hosted by a Windows File Server or a third-party SMB storage device. If Windows File Server is used, the Windows File Server version should be 2008 or later. For more information about installing [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using SMB file share as a storage option, see [Install [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]  with SMB Fileshare as a Storage Option](../../database-engine/install-windows/install-sql-server-with-smb-fileshare-as-a-storage-option.md).

## <a id="DC_support"></a> Install SQL Server on a domain controller

For security reasons, we recommend that you don't install [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] on a domain controller. [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup won't block installation on a computer that is a domain controller, but the following limitations apply:

- You can't run [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] services on a domain controller under a local service account.
- After [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] is installed on a computer, you can't change the computer from a domain member to a domain controller. You must uninstall [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] before you change the host computer to a domain controller.
- After [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] is installed on a computer, you can't change the computer from a domain controller to a domain member. You must uninstall [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] before you change the host computer to a domain member.
- [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] failover cluster instances aren't supported where cluster nodes are domain controllers.
- [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] isn't supported on a read-only domain controller. [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup can't create security groups or provision [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] service accounts on a read-only domain controller. In this scenario, Setup fails.
- A [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] failover cluster instance isn't supported in an environment where only a read-only domain controller is accessible.

## Installation media

You can get relevant installation media from the following locations:

- [SQL Server evaluation center](https://www.microsoft.com/evalcenter/evaluate-sql-server-2022)
- [Most recent cumulative updates](/troubleshoot/sql/releases/download-and-install-latest-updates?bc=%2fsql%2fbreadcrumb%2ftoc.json&toc=%2fsql%2ftoc.json)

Alternatively, you can create an [Azure virtual machine already running SQL Server](/azure/azure-sql/virtual-machines/windows/sql-vm-create-portal-quickstart) though [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]  on a virtual machine can be slower than running natively because of the overhead of virtualization.

## Related content

- [Plan a SQL Server installation](planning-a-sql-server-installation.md)
- [Security considerations for SQL Server](security-considerations-for-a-sql-server-installation.md)

Commit message:

Correct driver reference in software install list

docs/sql-server/install/hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server-2022.md, after:

---
title: "SQL Server 2022: Hardware & software requirements"
description: A list of hardware, software, and operating system requirements for installing and running SQL Server 2022.
author: MikeRayMSFT
ms.author: mikeray
ms.reviewer: randolphwest, jopilov, rdorr
ms.date: 11/28/2023
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: release-landing
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Setup [SQL Server], software"
  - "software [SQL Server]"
  - "installing SQL Server, software"
  - "operating systems [SQL Server], SQL Server requirements"
  - "Setup [SQL Server], cross-language support"
  - "operating systems [SQL Server], cross-language support"
  - "network connections [SQL Server], requirements"
  - "disk space [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "WOW [SQL Server]"
  - "Setup [SQL Server], hardware"
  - "dependencies [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "cluster hardware requirements [SQL Server]"
  - "endpoints [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "Internet [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "hardware [SQL Server]"
  - "Windows on Windows [SQL Server]"
  - "installing SQL Server, hardware"
  - "Setup Configuration Checker"
  - "SCC [SQL Server]"
  - "operating systems [SQL Server]"
  - "space [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "system configuration checker"
  - "installing SQL Server, cross-language support"
  - "Internet [SQL Server]"
  - "space [SQL Server]"
  - "extended system support [SQL Server]"
  - "64-bit edition [SQL Server]"
  - "failover clustering [SQL Server]"
  - "failover clustering [SQL Server], hardware requirements"
  - "32-bit edition [SQL Server]"
  - "locales [SQL Server], SQL Server installations"
  - "cross-language support"
  - "disk space [SQL Server]"
  - "localized SQL Server versions"
---

# SQL Server 2022: Hardware and software requirements

[!INCLUDE [SQL Server -Windows Only](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-windows-only.md)]

The article lists the minimum hardware and software requirements to install and run [!INCLUDE [sssql22-md](../../includes/sssql22-md.md)] on the Windows operating system.

For hardware and software requirements for other versions of [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], see:

- [SQL Server 2019](hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server-2019.md)
- [SQL Server 2016 and 2017](hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server.md)
- [SQL Server on Linux](../../linux/sql-server-linux-setup.md#system)

## <a id="pmosr"></a> Hardware requirements

The following memory and processor requirements apply to all editions of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]:

| Component | Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| Storage | [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] requires a minimum of 6 GB of available hard drive space.<br /><br />Disk space requirements vary with the [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] components you install. For more information, see [Hard Disk Space Requirements](../../sql-server/install/hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server.md#HardDiskSpace) later in this article. For information on supported storage types for data files, see [Storage Types for Data Files](../../sql-server/install/hardware-and-software-requirements-for-installing-sql-server.md#StorageTypes). |
| Monitor | [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] requires Super-VGA (800x600) or higher resolution monitor. |
| Internet | Internet functionality requires Internet access (fees can apply). |
| Memory <sup>1</sup> | **Minimum:**<br /><br />Express Editions: 512 MB<br /><br />All other editions: 1 GB<br /><br />**Recommended:**<br /><br />Express Editions: 1 GB<br /><br />All other editions: At least 4 GB and should be increased as database size increases to ensure optimal performance. |
| Processor Speed | **Minimum:** x64 Processor: 1.4 GHz<br /><br />**Recommended:** 2.0 GHz or faster |
| Processor Type | x64 Processor: AMD Opteron, AMD Athlon 64, Intel Xeon with Intel EM64T support, Intel Pentium IV with EM64T support |

<sup>1</sup> The minimum memory required for installing the [!INCLUDE [ssDQSServer](../../includes/ssdqsserver-md.md)] component in [!INCLUDE [ssDQSnoversion](../../includes/ssdqsnoversion-md.md)] (DQS) is 2 GB of RAM, which is different from the [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] minimum memory requirement. For information about installing DQS, see [Install Data Quality Services](../../data-quality-services/install-windows/install-data-quality-services.md).

> [!NOTE]  
> Installation of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] is supported on x64 processors only. It is no longer supported on x86 processors.

## <a id="hwswr"></a> Software requirements

The following requirements apply to all installations:

| Component | Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| Operating system | Windows 10 1607 or greater<br /><br />Windows Server 2016 or greater. |
| .NET Framework | Minimum operating systems include minimum .NET framework. |
| Network Software | Supported operating systems for [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] have built-in network software. Named and default instances of a stand-alone installation support the following network protocols: Shared memory, Named Pipes, and TCP/IP. |

[!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup installs the following software components required by the product:

- Microsoft ODBC Driver 17 for [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]
- Microsoft OLE DB Driver for [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]
- [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup support files

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> There are additional hardware and software requirements for the PolyBase feature. For more information, see [Introducing data virtualization with PolyBase](../../relational-databases/polybase/polybase-guide.md).

## Operating system support

The following table shows which editions of [!INCLUDE [sssql22-md](../../includes/sssql22-md.md)] are compatible with which versions of Windows:

| [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] edition: | Enterprise | Developer | Standard | Web | Express |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :-- | :--- |
| Windows Server 2022 Datacenter | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2022 Datacenter: Azure Edition | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2022 Standard | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2022 Essentials | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2019 Datacenter | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2019 Standard | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2019 Essentials | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2016 Datacenter | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2016 Standard | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows Server 2016 Essentials | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Windows 11 IoT Enterprise | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 11 Enterprise | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 11 Professional | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 11 Home | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 10 IoT Enterprise | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 10 Enterprise | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 10 Professional | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |
| Windows 10 Home | No | Yes | Yes | No | Yes |

### Server Core support

Installing [!INCLUDE [sssql22-md](../../includes/sssql22-md.md)] on Server Core mode is supported by the following editions of Windows Server:

- Windows Server 2022 Core
- Windows Server 2019 Core
- Windows Server 2016 Core

For more information on installing [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]  on Server Core, see [Install [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]  on Server Core](../../database-engine/install-windows/install-sql-server-on-server-core.md).

## <a id="CrossLanguageSupport"></a> Cross-language support

For more information about cross-language support and considerations for installing [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] in localized languages, see [Local Language Versions in [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]](../../sql-server/install/local-language-versions-in-sql-server.md).

## <a id="HardDiskSpace"></a> Disk space requirements

During installation of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], Windows Installer creates temporary files on the system drive. Before you run Setup to install or upgrade [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)], verify that you have at least 6.0 GB of available disk space on the system drive for these files. This requirement applies even if you install [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] components to a non-default drive.

Actual hard disk space requirements depend on your system configuration and the features that you decide to install. The following table provides disk space requirements for [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] components.

| **Feature** | **Disk space requirement** |
| --- | ---: |
| [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] and data files, Replication, Full-Text Search, and Data Quality Services | 1,480 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] (as above) with R Services (In-Database) | 2,744 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] (as above) with PolyBase Query Service for External Data | 4,194 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssASnoversion](../../includes/ssasnoversion-md.md)] and data files | 698 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssRSnoversion](../../includes/ssrsnoversion-md.md)] | 967 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [rsql_platform](../../includes/rsql-platform-md.md)] (Standalone) | 280 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssRSnoversion](../../includes/ssrsnoversion-md.md)] - SharePoint | 1,203 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssRSnoversion](../../includes/ssrsnoversion-md.md)] Add-in for SharePoint Products | 325 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssDQSClient](../../includes/ssdqsclient-md.md)] | 121 MB |
| Client Tools Connectivity | 328 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssISnoversion](../../includes/ssisnoversion-md.md)] | 306 MB |
| Client Components (other than [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Books Online components and Integration Services tools) | 445 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssMDSshort](../../includes/ssmdsshort-md.md)] | 280 MB |
| [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Books Online Components to view and manage help content <sup>1</sup> | 27 MB |
| All features | 8,030 MB |

<sup>1</sup> The disk space requirement for downloaded Books Online content is 200 MB.

## <a id="StorageTypes"></a> Storage types for data files

The supported storage types for data files are:

- Local Disk
  - [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] currently supports disk drives that have standard native sector sizes of 512 bytes and 4 KB. For more information about support for larger sector sizes and manufacturer implementations, see the section "4-KB disk sector sizes" in the white paper *SQLIOBasicsCh2.doc*. You can download the whitepaper from the [Download](/previous-versions/sql/sql-server-2005/administrator/cc917726(v=technet.10)#download) section of the [SQL Server I/O Basics, Chapter 2](/previous-versions/sql/sql-server-2005/administrator/cc917726(v=technet.10)) article.

       If you use advanced format disks that are physically formatted with 4,096 bytes, but expose a logical sector size of 512 bytes, you can read more about the behavior and recommendations in the Tech Community article [SQL Server - New drives use 4K sector size](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/sql-server-support-blog/sql-server-new-drives-use-4k-sector-size/ba-p/316277).

       Hard disks with sector sizes larger than 4 KB can cause errors when attempting to store SQL Server data files on them. For more information, see [Troubleshoot errors related to system disk sector size greater than 4 KB](/troubleshoot/sql/database-engine/database-file-operations/troubleshoot-os-4kb-disk-sector-size).
  - [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] failover cluster installation supports Local Disk only for installing the `tempdb` files. Ensure that the path specified for the `tempdb` data and log files is valid on all the cluster nodes. During failover, if the `tempdb` directories aren't available on the failover target node, the [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] resource fails to come online.
- Shared Storage
- [Storage Spaces Direct \(S2D\)](/windows-server/storage/storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-overview)
- SMB File Share
  - SMB storage isn't supported for [!INCLUDE [ssASnoversion](../../includes/ssasnoversion-md.md)] data files for either standalone or clustered installations. Use direct attached storage, a storage area network, or S2D instead.
  - SMB storage can be hosted by a Windows File Server or a third-party SMB storage device. If Windows File Server is used, the Windows File Server version should be 2008 or later. For more information about installing [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] using SMB file share as a storage option, see [Install [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]  with SMB Fileshare as a Storage Option](../../database-engine/install-windows/install-sql-server-with-smb-fileshare-as-a-storage-option.md).

## <a id="DC_support"></a> Install SQL Server on a domain controller

For security reasons, we recommend that you don't install [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] on a domain controller. [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup won't block installation on a computer that is a domain controller, but the following limitations apply:

- You can't run [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] services on a domain controller under a local service account.
- After [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] is installed on a computer, you can't change the computer from a domain member to a domain controller. You must uninstall [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] before you change the host computer to a domain controller.
- After [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] is installed on a computer, you can't change the computer from a domain controller to a domain member. You must uninstall [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] before you change the host computer to a domain member.
- [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] failover cluster instances aren't supported where cluster nodes are domain controllers.
- [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] isn't supported on a read-only domain controller. [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup can't create security groups or provision [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] service accounts on a read-only domain controller. In this scenario, Setup fails.
- A [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] failover cluster instance isn't supported in an environment where only a read-only domain controller is accessible.

## Installation media

You can get relevant installation media from the following locations:

- [SQL Server evaluation center](https://www.microsoft.com/evalcenter/evaluate-sql-server-2022)
- [Most recent cumulative updates](/troubleshoot/sql/releases/download-and-install-latest-updates?bc=%2fsql%2fbreadcrumb%2ftoc.json&toc=%2fsql%2ftoc.json)

Alternatively, you can create an [Azure virtual machine already running SQL Server](/azure/azure-sql/virtual-machines/windows/sql-vm-create-portal-quickstart) though [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]  on a virtual machine can be slower than running natively because of the overhead of virtualization.

## Related content

- [Plan a SQL Server installation](planning-a-sql-server-installation.md)
- [Security considerations for SQL Server](security-considerations-for-a-sql-server-installation.md)
