---
title: "Create and Apply the Initial Snapshot | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/20/2018"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: replication
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "snapshots [SQL Server replication], creating"
  - "snapshot replication [SQL Server], initial snapshots"
ms.assetid: 742727a1-5189-44ec-b3ae-6fd7aa1f5347
author: "MashaMSFT"
ms.author: "mathoma"
manager: craigg
---
# Create and Apply the Initial Snapshot
[!INCLUDE[appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]
This topic describes how to create and apply the initial snapshot in [!INCLUDE[ssCurrent](../../includes/sscurrent-md.md)] by using [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../../includes/ssmanstudiofull-md.md)], [!INCLUDE[tsql](../../includes/tsql-md.md)], or Replication Management Objects (RMO). Merge publications that use parameterized filters require a two-part snapshot. For more information, see [Create a Snapshot for a Merge Publication with Parameterized Filters](../../relational-databases/replication/create-a-snapshot-for-a-merge-publication-with-parameterized-filters.md).  
  Snapshots are generated by the Snapshot Agent after a publication is created. They can be generated:  
  
-   Immediately. By default, a snapshot for a merge publication is generated immediately after the publication is created in the New Publication Wizard.    
-   At a scheduled time. Specify a schedule on the **Snapshot Agent** page of the New Publication Wizard or when using stored procedures or Replication Management Objects (RMO).    
-   Manually. Run the Snapshot Agent from the command prompt or from [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../../includes/ssmanstudiofull-md.md)]. For more information about running agents, see [Replication Agent Executables Concepts](../../relational-databases/replication/concepts/replication-agent-executables-concepts.md) and [Start and Stop a Replication Agent &#40;SQL Server Management Studio&#41;](../../relational-databases/replication/agents/start-and-stop-a-replication-agent-sql-server-management-studio.md).  
  
For merge replication, a snapshot is generated every time the Snapshot Agent runs. For transactional replication, snapshot generation depends on the setting of the publication property **immediate_sync**. If the property is set to TRUE (the default when using the New Publication Wizard), a snapshot is generated every time the Snapshot Agent runs, and it can be applied to a Subscriber at any time. If the property is set to FALSE (the default when using **sp_addpublication**), the snapshot is generated only if a new subscription has been added since the last Snapshot Agent run; Subscribers must wait for the Snapshot Agent to complete before they can synchronize.  
  
By default, when snapshots are generated, they are saved in the default snapshot folder located on the Distributor. You can also save snapshot files on removable media such as removable disks, CD-ROMs, or in locations other than in the default snapshot folder. Additionally, you can compress the files so that they are easier to store and transfer, and execute scripts before or after the snapshot is applied at the Subscriber. For more information about these options, see [Snapshot Options](../../relational-databases/replication/snapshot-options.md).  
  
If the snapshot is for a merge publication that uses parameterized filters, the snapshot is created using a two-part process. First a schema snapshot is created that contains the replication scripts and the schema of the published objects, but not the data. Each subscription is then initialized with a snapshot that includes the scripts and schema copied from the schema snapshot and the data that belongs to the subscription's partition. For more information, see [Snapshots for Merge Publications with Parameterized Filters](../../relational-databases/replication/create-a-snapshot-for-a-merge-publication-with-parameterized-filters.md).  
  
After the snapshot is created at the Publisher and stored in a default or alternate snapshot location, the snapshot can be transferred to the Subscriber and applied. The Distribution Agent (for snapshot or transactional replication) or Merge Agent (for merge replication) transfers the snapshot and applies the schema and data files to the subscription database on the Subscriber during the initial synchronization. By default, the initial synchronization occurs immediately after a subscription is created if you use the New Subscription Wizard. This behavior is controlled by the **Initialize When** option on the **Initialize Subscriptions** page of the wizard. When snapshots are generated after a subscription is initialized, they are not applied to a Subscriber unless a subscription is marked for reinitialization. For more information, see [Reinitialize Subscriptions](../../relational-databases/replication/reinitialize-subscriptions.md).  
  
After the Distribution Agent or Merge Agent applies the initial snapshot, the agent propagates subsequent updates and other data modifications. When snapshots are distributed and applied to Subscribers, only those Subscribers waiting for initial or new snapshots are affected. Other Subscribers to that publication (those that are already receiving inserts, updates, deletes, or other modifications to the published data) are not affected.  

To view or modify the default snapshot folder location, see  
  
-   [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../../includes/ssmanstudiofull-md.md)]: [Modify snapshot options](../../relational-databases/replication/snapshot-options.md)  
  
-   Replication Programming and RMO programming: [Configure Publishing and Distribution](../../relational-databases/replication/configure-publishing-and-distribution.md)  

## Default snapshot location

 Specify the default snapshot location on the **Snapshot Folder** page of the Configure Distribution Wizard. For more information about using this wizard, see [Configure Publishing and Distribution](../../relational-databases/replication/configure-publishing-and-distribution.md). If you create a publication on a server that is not configured as a Distributor, specify a default snapshot location on the **Snapshot Folder** page of the New Publication Wizard. For more information about using this wizard, see [Create a Publication](../../relational-databases/replication/publish/create-a-publication.md).  
  
 Modify the default snapshot location on the **Publishers** page of the **Distributor Properties - \<Distributor>** dialog box. For more information, see [View and Modify Distributor and Publisher Properties](../../relational-databases/replication/view-and-modify-distributor-and-publisher-properties.md). Set the snapshot folder for each publication in the **Publication Properties - \<Publication>** dialog box. For more information, see [View and Modify Publication Properties](../../relational-databases/replication/publish/view-and-modify-publication-properties.md).  
  
### Modify the default snapshot location  
  
1.  On the **Publishers** page of the **Distributor Properties - \<Distributor>** dialog box, click the properties button (**…**) for the Publisher for which you want to change the default snapshot location.  
  
2.  In the **Publisher Properties - \<Publisher>** dialog box, enter a value for the **Default Snapshot Folder** property.  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    >  The Snapshot Agent must have write permissions for the directory you specify, and the Distribution Agent or Merge Agent must have read permissions. If pull subscriptions are used, you must specify a shared directory as a universal naming convention (UNC) path, such as \\\computername\snapshot. For more information, see [Secure the Snapshot Folder](../../relational-databases/replication/security/secure-the-snapshot-folder.md).  
  
3.  [!INCLUDE[clickOK](../../includes/clickok-md.md)]  

## Create snapshot
By default, if SQL Server Agent is running, a snapshot is generated by the Snapshot Agent immediately after a publication is created with the New Publication Wizard. By default, it is then applied by the Distribution Agent (for snapshot and transactional replication) or Merge Agent (for merge subscriptions) for all subscriptions. A snapshot can also be generated using [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../../includes/ssmanstudiofull-md.md)] and Replication Monitor. For information about starting Replication Monitor, see [Start the Replication Monitor](../../relational-databases/replication/monitor/start-the-replication-monitor.md).  

### Using SQL Server Management Studio

1.  Connect to the Publisher in [!INCLUDE[ssManStudio](../../includes/ssmanstudio-md.md)], and then expand the server node.    
2.  Expand the **Replication** folder, and then expand the **Local Publications** folder.    
3.  Right-click the publication for which you want to create a snapshot, and then click **View Snapshot Agent Status**.    
4.  In the **View Snapshot Agent Status - \<Publication>** dialog box, click **Start**.    
 When the Snapshot Agent finishes generating the snapshot, a message will be displayed, such as "[100%] A snapshot of 17 article(s) was generated."  
  
### In Replication Monitor  
  
1.  In Replication Monitor, expand a Publisher group in the left pane, and then expand a Publisher.    
2.  Right-click the publication for which you want to generate a snapshot, and then click **Generate Snapshot**.    
3.  To view the status of the Snapshot Agent, click the **Agents** tab. For more detailed information, right-click the Snapshot Agent in the grid, and then click **View Details**.  

## Using Transact-SQL
Initial snapshots can be programmatically created either by creating and running a Snapshot Agent job or by running the Snapshot Agent executable file from a batch file. After an initial snapshot has been generated, it is transferred to and applied at the Subscriber when the subscription is first synchronized. If you run the Snapshot Agent from a command prompt or a batch file, you will need to rerun the agent whenever the existing snapshot becomes invalid.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
>  When possible, prompt users to enter security credentials at runtime. If you must store credentials in a script file, you must secure the file to prevent unauthorized access.  

1.  Create a snapshot, transactional, or merge publication. For more information, see [Create a Publication](../../relational-databases/replication/publish/create-a-publication.md).  
  
2.  Execute [sp_addpublication_snapshot &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-addpublication-snapshot-transact-sql.md). Specify **@publication** and the following parameters:  
  
    -   **The @job_login, which specifies** the Windows Authentication credentials under which the Snapshot Agent runs at the Distributor.  
  
    -   **The @job_password**, which is the password for the supplied Windows credentials.  
  
    -   (Optional) A value of **0** for **@publisher_security_mode** if the agent will use SQL Server Authentication when connecting to the Publisher. In this case, you must also specify the SQL Server Authentication login information for **@publisher_login** and **@publisher_password**.  
  
    -   (Optional) A synchronization schedule for the Snapshot Agent job. For more information, see [Specify Synchronization Schedules](../../relational-databases/replication/specify-synchronization-schedules.md).  
  
    > [!IMPORTANT]  
    >  When configuring a Publisher with a remote Distributor, the values supplied for all parameters, including *job_login* and *job_password*, are sent to the Distributor as plain text. You should encrypt the connection between the Publisher and its remote Distributor before executing this stored procedure. For more information, see [Enable Encrypted Connections to the Database Engine &#40;SQL Server Configuration Manager&#41;](../../database-engine/configure-windows/enable-encrypted-connections-to-the-database-engine.md).  
  
3.  Add articles to the publication. For more information, see [Define an Article](../../relational-databases/replication/publish/define-an-article.md).  
  
4.  At the Publisher on the publication database, execute [sp_startpublication_snapshot &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-startpublication-snapshot-transact-sql.md), specifying the value of **@publication** from step 1.  
  
## Apply a snapshot  

### Using SQL Server Management Studio
  
1.  After the snapshot is generated, it is applied by synchronizing the subscription with the Distribution Agent or the Merge Agent:   
    -   If the agent is set to run continuously (the default for transactional replication), the snapshot is automatically applied after it is generated.   
    -   If the agent is set to run on a schedule, the snapshot is applied the next time the agent is scheduled to run.    
    -   If the agent is set to run on demand, it is applied the next time you run the agent.  
  
     For more information about synchronizing subscriptions, see [Synchronize a Push Subscription](../../relational-databases/replication/synchronize-a-push-subscription.md) and [Synchronize a Pull Subscription](../../relational-databases/replication/synchronize-a-pull-subscription.md).  
  
###   Use Transact-SQL  
 
1.  Create a snapshot, transactional, or merge publication. For more information, see [Create a Publication](../../relational-databases/replication/publish/create-a-publication.md).  
  
2.  Add articles to the publication. For more information, see [Define an Article](../../relational-databases/replication/publish/define-an-article.md).  
  
3.  From the command prompt or in a batch file, start the [Replication Snapshot Agent](../../relational-databases/replication/agents/replication-snapshot-agent.md) by running **snapshot.exe**, specifying the following command-line arguments:  
  
    -   **-Publication**  
    -   **-Publisher**  
    -   **-Distributor**   
    -   **-PublisherDB**   
    -   **-ReplicationType**  
  
     If you are using SQL Server Authentication, you must also specify the following arguments:  
  
    -   **-DistributorLogin**    
    -   **-DistributorPassword**   
    -   **-DistributorSecurityMode** = **0**    
    -   **-PublisherLogin**    
    -   **-PublisherPassword**    
    -   **-PublisherSecurityMode** = **0**  
  
###  <a name="TsqlExample"></a> Examples (Transact-SQL)  
 This example shows how to create a transactional publication and add a Snapshot Agent job for the new publication (using **sqlcmd** scripting variables). The example also starts the job.  
  
 [!code-sql[HowTo#sp_trangenerate_snapshot](../../relational-databases/replication/codesnippet/tsql/create-and-apply-the-ini_1.sql)]  
  
 This example creates a merge publication and adds a Snapshot Agent job (using **sqlcmd** variables) for the publication. This example also starts the job.  
  
 [!code-sql[HowTo#sp_mergegenerate_snapshot](../../relational-databases/replication/codesnippet/tsql/create-and-apply-the-ini_2.sql)]  
  
 The following command-line arguments start the Snapshot Agent to generate the snapshot for a merge publication.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  Line breaks were added to improve readability. In a batch file, commands must be made in a single line.  
  
```  
  
REM -- Declare variables  
SET Publisher=%InstanceName%  
SET PublicationDB=AdventureWorks2012   
SET Publication=AdvWorksSalesOrdersMerge   
  
REM --Start the Snapshot Agent to generate the snapshot for AdvWorksSalesOrdersMerge.  
"C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\120\COM\SNAPSHOT.EXE" -Publication %Publication%   
-Publisher %Publisher% -Distributor %Publisher% -PublisherDB %PublicationDB%   
-ReplicationType 2 -OutputVerboseLevel 1 -DistributorSecurityMode 1  
  
```  
  
##  <a name="RMOProcedure"></a> Using Replication Management Objects (RMO)  
 The Snapshot Agent generates snapshots after a publication is created. You can generate these snapshots programmatically by using Replication Management Objects (RMO) and direct managed code access to replication agent functionalities. The objects you use depend on the type of replication. The Snapshot Agent can be started synchronously using the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent> object or asynchronously using the agent job. After the initial snapshot has been generated, it is transferred to and applied at the Subscriber when the subscription is first synchronized. You will need to rerun the agent whenever the existing snapshot no longer contains valid, up-to-date data. For more information, see [Maintain Publications](../../relational-databases/replication/publish/maintain-publications.md).  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
>  When possible, prompt users to enter security credentials at runtime. If you must store credentials, use the [cryptographic services](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=34733) provided by the [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../../includes/msconame-md.md)] Windows .NET Framework.  
  
#### To generate the initial snapshot for a snapshot or transactional publication by starting the Snapshot Agent job (asynchronous)  
  
1.  Create a connection to the Publisher by using the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Management.Common.ServerConnection> class.  
  
2.  Create an instance of the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.TransPublication> class. Set the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.Name%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.DatabaseName%2A> properties for the publication, and set the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.ReplicationObject.ConnectionContext%2A> property to the connection created in step 1.  
  
3.  Call the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.ReplicationObject.LoadProperties%2A> method to load the remaining properties of the object. If this method returns **false**, either the publication properties in step 2 were defined incorrectly or the publication does not exist.  
  
4.  If the value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.SnapshotAgentExists%2A> is **false**, call <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.CreateSnapshotAgent%2A> to create the snapshot agent job for this publication.  
  
5.  Call the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.StartSnapshotGenerationAgentJob%2A> method to start the agent job that generates the snapshot for this publication.  
  
6.  (Optional) When the value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.TransPublication.SnapshotAvailable%2A> is **true**, the snapshot is available to Subscribers.  
  
#### To generate the initial snapshot for a snapshot or transactional publication by running the Snapshot Agent (synchronous)  
  
1.  Create an instance of the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent> class, and set the following required properties:  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.Publisher%2A> - name of the Publisher  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.PublisherDatabase%2A> - name of the publication database  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.Publication%2A> - name of the publication  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.Distributor%2A> - name of the Distributor  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.PublisherSecurityMode%2A> - a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SecurityMode.Integrated> to use Windows Authentication when connecting to the Publisher or a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SecurityMode.Standard> and values for <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.PublisherLogin%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.PublisherPassword%2A> to use [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Authentication when connecting to the Publisher. Windows Authentication is recommended.  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.DistributorSecurityMode%2A> - a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SecurityMode.Integrated> to use Windows Authentication when connecting to the Distributor or a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SecurityMode.Standard> and values for <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.DistributorLogin%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.DistributorPassword%2A> to use [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Authentication when connecting to the Distributor. Windows Authentication is recommended.  
  
2.  Set a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.ReplicationType.Transactional> or <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.ReplicationType.Snapshot> for <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.ReplicationType%2A>.  
  
3.  Call the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.GenerateSnapshot%2A> method.  
  
#### To generate the initial snapshot for a merge publication by starting the Snapshot Agent job (asynchronous)  
  
1.  Create a connection to the Publisher by using the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Management.Common.ServerConnection> class.  
  
2.  Create an instance of the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.MergePublication> class. Set the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.Name%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.DatabaseName%2A> properties for the publication, and set the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.ReplicationObject.ConnectionContext%2A> property to the connection created in step 1.  
  
3.  Call the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.ReplicationObject.LoadProperties%2A> method to load the remaining properties of the object. If this method returns **false**, either the publication properties in step 2 were defined incorrectly or the publication does not exist.  
  
4.  If the value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.SnapshotAgentExists%2A> is **false**, call <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.CreateSnapshotAgent%2A> to create the snapshot agent job for this publication.  
  
5.  Call the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.Publication.StartSnapshotGenerationAgentJob%2A> method to start the agent job that generates the snapshot for this publication.  
  
6.  (Optional) When the value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.MergePublication.SnapshotAvailable%2A> is **true**, the snapshot is available to Subscribers.  
  
#### To generate the initial snapshot for a merge publication by running the Snapshot Agent (synchronous)  
  
1.  Create an instance of the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent> class, and set the following required properties:  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.Publisher%2A> - name of the Publisher  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.PublisherDatabase%2A> - name of the publication database  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.Publication%2A> - name of the publication  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.Distributor%2A> - name of the Distributor  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.PublisherSecurityMode%2A> - a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SecurityMode.Integrated> to use Windows Authentication when connecting to the Publisher or a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SecurityMode.Standard> and values for <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.PublisherLogin%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.PublisherPassword%2A> to use [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Authentication when connecting to the Publisher. Windows Authentication is recommended.  
  
    -   <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.DistributorSecurityMode%2A> - a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SecurityMode.Integrated> to use Windows Authentication when connecting to the Distributor or a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SecurityMode.Standard> and values for <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.DistributorLogin%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.DistributorPassword%2A> to use [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Authentication when connecting to the Distributor. Windows Authentication is recommended.  
  
2.  Set a value of <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.ReplicationType.Merge> for <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.ReplicationType%2A>.  
  
3.  Call the <xref:Microsoft.SqlServer.Replication.SnapshotGenerationAgent.GenerateSnapshot%2A> method.  
  
###  <a name="PShellExample"></a> Examples (RMO)  
 This example synchronously runs the Snapshot Agent to generate the initial snapshot for a transactional publication.  
  
 [!code-cs[HowTo#rmo_GenerateSnapshot](../../relational-databases/replication/codesnippet/csharp/rmohowto/rmotestevelope.cs#rmo_generatesnapshot)]  
  
 [!code-vb[HowTo#rmo_vb_GenerateSnapshot](../../relational-databases/replication/codesnippet/visualbasic/rmohowtovb/rmotestenv.vb#rmo_vb_generatesnapshot)]  
  
 This example asynchronously starts the agent job to generate the initial snapshot for a transactional publication.  
  
 [!code-cs[HowTo#rmo_GenerateSnapshot_WithJob](../../relational-databases/replication/codesnippet/csharp/rmohowto/rmotestevelope.cs#rmo_generatesnapshot_withjob)]  
  
 [!code-vb[HowTo#rmo_vb_GenerateSnapshot_WithJob](../../relational-databases/replication/codesnippet/visualbasic/rmohowtovb/rmotestenv.vb#rmo_vb_generatesnapshot_withjob)]  
  
## See Also  
 [Create a Publication](../../relational-databases/replication/publish/create-a-publication.md)   
 [Create a Pull Subscription](../../relational-databases/replication/create-a-pull-subscription.md)   
 [Create a Push Subscription](../../relational-databases/replication/create-a-push-subscription.md)   
 [Specify Synchronization Schedules](../../relational-databases/replication/specify-synchronization-schedules.md)   
 [Initialize a Subscription with a Snapshot](../../relational-databases/replication/initialize-a-subscription-with-a-snapshot.md)   
 [Replication Management Objects Concepts](../../relational-databases/replication/concepts/replication-management-objects-concepts.md)   
 [Replication Security Best Practices](../../relational-databases/replication/security/replication-security-best-practices.md)   
 [Replication System Stored Procedures Concepts](../../relational-databases/replication/concepts/replication-system-stored-procedures-concepts.md)   
 [Use sqlcmd with Scripting Variables](../../relational-databases/scripting/sqlcmd-use-with-scripting-variables.md)  
  
  
