---
title: "MSSQL_REPL-2147201001 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/01/2017"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: replication
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "MSSQL_REPL-2147201001 error"
ms.assetid: ce69bbee-9797-434f-8845-001d4a096eae
author: "MashaMSFT"
ms.author: "mathoma"
manager: craigg
---
# MSSQL_REPL-2147201001
[!INCLUDE[appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]
    
## Message Details  
  
|||  
|-|-|  
|Product Name|SQL Server|  
|Event ID|-2147201001|  
|Event Source|MSSQLServer|  
|Symbolic Name||  
|Message Text|The merge process was unable to deliver the snapshot to the Subscriber. If using Web synchronization, the merge process may have been unable to create or write to the message file. When troubleshooting, restart the synchronization with verbose history logging and specify an output file to which to write.|  
  
## Explanation  
 COM object initialization failed for an XML Subscriber. Some reasons why merge replication did not apply schema changes to the Subscriber include the following:  
  
-   A failure to create a directory to write the temporary snapshot files.  
  
-   A failure to enumerate schema articles.  
  
-   For SQL Server Compact Subscribers, a failure to reinitialize the subscription.  
  
-   If the object is message based, a failure to write to the message file.  
  
## User Action  
 Run [!INCLUDE[ssSqlProfiler](../../includes/sssqlprofiler-md.md)] and examine replmerg.log for failures. If you are using Web Synchronization, elevate the severity of the websync log, rerun the scenario, and check for errors in the websync.log file.  
  
 If you are using Web Synchronization, you can start Replmerg.exe and pass the **-T 106** option to use trace flag 106. This enables you to see the messages that are sent to and from the Publisher. By adding the trace flag to the Replmerg.exe agent command line, the agent writes the client's input messages to a file that is named ExchangeID(*guid*).IN.XML, and writes the output messages to a file that is named ExchangeID(*guid*).OUT.XML. (In these file names, *guid* is the GUID of the Exchange Server session.) These files are created in the directory from which Replmerg.exe was invoked. For security, you should delete these files after you are finished.  
  
## Internal-Only  
  
