---
title: "Reinitialize Subscription(s) - One Subscription | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/01/2017"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: replication
ms.topic: conceptual
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql13.rep.reinit.single.f1"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Reinitialize Subscription(s) dialog box"
ms.assetid: 9b0cf0be-d1f1-4163-a0ca-d6f095aa707e
author: "MashaMSFT"
ms.author: "mathoma"
manager: craigg
---
# Reinitialize Subscription(s) - One Subscription
[!INCLUDE[appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]
  The **Reinitialize Subscription(s)** dialog box allows you to mark a subscription for reinitialization. Reinitialization involves applying a snapshot to the Subscriber; it is performed by the Distribution Agent for subscriptions to transactional publications and by the Merge Agent for subscriptions to merge publications.  
  
## Options  
 **Use the current snapshot**  
 Select to apply the current snapshot to the Subscriber the next time the Distribution Agent or Merge Agent runs. If there is no valid snapshot available, this option cannot be selected.  
  
 **Use a new snapshot**  
 Select to reinitialize the subscription with a new snapshot. The snapshot can be applied to the Subscriber only after it has been generated by the Snapshot Agent. If the Snapshot Agent is set to run on a schedule, the subscription will not be reinitialized until after the next scheduled Snapshot Agent run.  
  
 Select **Generate the new snapshot now** to start the Snapshot Agent immediately.  
  
 **Upload unsynchronized changes before reinitialization**  
 Merge replication only. Select to upload any pending changes from the subscription database before the data at the Subscriber is overwritten with a snapshot.  
  
 If you add, drop, or change a parameterized filter, pending changes at the Subscriber cannot be uploaded to the Publisher during reinitialization. If you want to upload pending changes, synchronize all subscriptions before changing the filter.  
  
 **Mark for Reinitialization**  
 Click to mark the subscription for reinitialization. After a valid snapshot is available, the next time the Distribution Agent or Merge Agent runs for the subscription, the snapshot is applied at the Subscriber.  
  
## See Also  
 [Reinitialize Subscriptions](../../relational-databases/replication/reinitialize-subscriptions.md)  
  
  
