---
title: "Reinitialize Subscription(s) - All Subscriptions | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/01/2017"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.technology: replication
ms.topic: conceptual
f1_keywords: 
  - "sql13.rep.reinit.all.f1"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Reinitialize Subscription(s) dialog box"
ms.assetid: e1122018-9f74-43e3-8489-7eae33ff23d9
author: "MashaMSFT"
ms.author: "mathoma"
manager: craigg
---
# Reinitialize Subscription(s) - All Subscriptions
[!INCLUDE[appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/appliesto-ss-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]
  The **Reinitialize Subscription(s)** dialog box allows you to mark all subscriptions to a publication for reinitialization. Reinitialization involves applying a snapshot to each Subscriber; it is performed by the Distribution Agent for subscriptions to transactional publications and by the Merge Agent for subscriptions to merge publications.  
  
## Options  
 **Use the current snapshot**  
 Select to apply the current snapshot to each Subscriber the next time the Distribution Agent or Merge Agent runs for the subscription. If there is no valid snapshot available, this option cannot be selected.  
  
 **Use a new snapshot**  
 Select to reinitialize all subscriptions with a new snapshot. The snapshot can be applied to each Subscriber only after it has been generated by the Snapshot Agent. If the Snapshot Agent is set to run on a schedule, subscriptions will not be reinitialized until after the next scheduled Snapshot Agent run.  
  
 Select **Generate the new snapshot now** to start the Snapshot Agent immediately.  
  
 **Upload unsynchronized changes before reinitialization**  
 Merge replication only. Select to upload any pending changes from the subscription databases before the data at the Subscribers is overwritten with a snapshot.  
  
 If you add, drop, or change a parameterized filter, pending changes at the Subscriber cannot be uploaded to the Publisher during reinitialization. If you want to upload pending changes, synchronize all subscriptions before changing the filter.  
  
 **Mark for Reinitialization**  
 Click to mark each subscription for reinitialization. After a valid snapshot is available, the next time the Distribution Agent or Merge Agent runs for the subscription, the snapshot is applied at the Subscriber.  
  
## See Also  
 [Reinitialize Subscriptions](../../relational-databases/replication/reinitialize-subscriptions.md)  
  
  
