---
title: "DSCT00005: Conversion of system identifier is not supported (Error)"
description: "Covers the reason why Database Schema Conversion Toolkit isn't able to convert certain built-in system identifiers."
ms.prod: azure-data-studio
ms.technology: azure-data-studio
author: nahk-ivanov
ms.author: "alexiva"
ms.reviewer: "maghan"
ms.topic: reference
ms.custom:
ms.date: "12/21/2021"
---

# DSCT00005: Conversion of system identifier is not supported (Error)

This article covers the reason why Database Schema Conversion Toolkit isn't able to convert certain built-in system identifiers.

## Background

Different database platforms provide different built-in functionality. This spans from catalog tables and views (i.e. `sys.tables`, `sys.columns` in Microsoft SQL) to special functions and procedures. Not all built-in system objects from the source database have a corresponding match in the new target database. The Database Schema Conversion Toolkit will attempt to emulate the functionality of the source database, but sometimes it isn't possible. In such cases a `DSCT00005` error message is produced.

## Example

Consider the below query using Oracle's `SYS.ALL_UNUSED_COL_TABS` data dictionary:

```sql
SELECT
    TABLE_NAME
FROM
    SYS.ALL_UNUSED_COL_TABS
WHERE
    OWNER = 'TEST'
```

When converting this query targeting Microsoft SQL platform, a `DSCT00005` error message will be produced, as Microsoft SQL does not have a concept of unused table columns.

## Possible remedies

Review the converted code to determine whether this functionality is business-critical or does not apply to the new database platform. Depending on a certain scenario it may not be necessary to transfer the logic in question to the new database platform, like in the example above, where there is simply no concept of the unused columns in the new database platform. In other situations, the code that failed to convert might be a part of the application business logic which cannot be removed. In such cases the logic will need to be converted manually.
