---
title: "DSCT00001: Conversion of statements is not supported (Error)"
description: "Covers the reason why Database Schema Conversion Toolkit isn't able to convert certain statements."
author: tdoshin
ms.author: timioshin
ms.reviewer: "maghan"
ms.date: "10/4/2021"
ms.service: azure-data-studio
ms.topic: reference
---

# DSCT00001: Conversion of statements is not supported (Error)

This article covers the reason why Database Schema Conversion Toolkit isn't able to convert certain statements.

## Background

When it comes to automated database schema conversion, there are cases when some statements aren't converted. This can be because of multiple different reasons. The most common are:

- Conversion of a certain statement isn't yet implemented in the Database Schema Conversion Toolkit
- Conversion of statement cannot be automated because of lack of context
- Conversion of statement cannot be automated because target platform doesn't provide similar functionality, and this functionality cannot be emulated

## Example

To better understand the necessity of the context during conversion, consider the following example:

```sql
EXECUTE
    "SELECT SUM(AMOUNT) " +
    "FROM " + :SalesTableName
    "WHERE " + :FilterClause
```

In this case, parts of the SQL statement (source table name and filter clause) will be specified externally to the location where the `EXECUTE` statement is defined. To properly convert the above statement, DSCT will need to know runtime values of the parameters `:SalesTableName` and `:FilterClause` to ensure that the resulting statement is correct in the target database. While `EXECUTE` statement itself is widely supported across the database platforms and can be converted, the dynamic SQL string cannot be converted, as it has an incomplete definition in the given context.

Another example is related to the difference in supported features across different database platforms. Consider the following unique index:

```sql
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX IX_EMPLOYEES_ID
    ON EMPLOYEES (ID)
```

When converting this statement targeting Azure Synapse, a `DSCT00001` error message will be produced, as Azure Synapse doesn't currently support unique indexes.

## Possible remedies

Statements that cannot be automatically converted will need to be converted manually.

> [!NOTE]
> When migrating from Oracle database to Microsoft SQL platform, you may also consider using [SQL Server Migration Assistant for Oracle](../../../../ssma/oracle/sql-server-migration-assistant-for-oracle-oracletosql.md), which provides automated conversion for an extended set of statements, but can only be used on Windows.
