---
title: "DSCT01102: Session-scoped sequence was converted as global sequence (Info)"
description: "Covers the reason why Database Schema Conversion Toolkit changes the scope of the sequence during conversion."
author: tdoshin
ms.author: timioshin
ms.reviewer: "maghan"
ms.date: "10/4/2021"
ms.service: azure-data-studio
ms.topic: reference
---

# DSCT01102: Session-scoped sequence was converted as global sequence (Info)

This article covers the reason why Database Schema Conversion Toolkit changes the scope of the sequence during conversion.

## Background

Oracle database supports session-scoped sequences, which generate unique values within a single session. Microsoft SQL does not have similar functionality and only supports global sequences.

## Example

Consider the below session-scoped sequence.

```sql
CREATE SEQUENCE SESSION_SEQ
    SESSION
```

The `SESSION` option will not be converted when targeting Microsoft SQL platform and `DSCT01102` informational message will be produced.

## Possible remedies

In general, it is very rare when sequence values must be reused between different sessions, but Database Schema Conversion Toolkit produces an informational message, so that you can review each case.

If your scenario depends on the fact that values are reused between sessions, consider creating a helper table storing sequence number per `@@SPID` with associated routines to retrieve next value and clean it up.
Another approach would be to update the application to use session-scoped temp tables, for example `#MySequence1`, `#MySequence2`, etc. each of which holds last generated sequence value. Such tables will be automatically dropped when session ends.
