---
title: "DSCT00004: Conversion of data type is not supported (Error)"
description: "Covers the reason why Database Schema Conversion Toolkit isn't able to convert certain data types."
author: tdoshin
ms.author: timioshin
ms.reviewer: "maghan"
ms.date: "10/4/2021"
ms.service: azure-data-studio
ms.topic: reference
---

# DSCT00004: Conversion of data type is not supported (Error)

This article covers the reason why Database Schema Conversion Toolkit isn't able to convert certain data types.

## Background

When migrating database schema between different database platforms, not all data types from the source database can have a corresponding match in the new target database. The Database Schema Conversion Toolkit will attempt to pick the best match in the target database, based on the source data type definition, but sometimes it isn't possible, as none of the data types in the target database provide the same functionality as the source. In such cases a `DSCT00004` error message is produced.

## Example

Consider the below table definition using `INTERVAL` data type as an example:

```sql
CREATE TABLE EXAMPLE
(
    COLUMN1 INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH
)
```

When converting this table definition targeting Microsoft SQL platform, a `DSCT00004` error message will be produced, as Microsoft SQL does not currently support `INTERVAL` data types.

## Possible remedies

Data type conversion issues will need to be addressed manually, with the knowledge of the application logic. Consider changing the data type to one of the supported types in the target database and updating references to it. In some cases a generic data type, like `VARCHAR`, may be used with a set of additional "accessor" routines (functions/procedures) to serialize and deserialize complex values.
